birth certificate corrections/changes | alabama department of public health (adph) skip to main content alabama public health healthy people. healthy communities. healthy alabama. login locations careers contact login locations careers contact who we are what we do who we serve a-z search who we are what we do who we serve a-z search menu back who we are what we do who we serve a-z index login locations careers contact about us strategic plan administration health departments silent guardians of health view all newsroom organizational chart annual report guides to services alabama's health view all quick links login portal calendar certificates, licenses, permits laws and regulations help/faq contact us free communication assistance careers at adph job recruiters clinical and other direct services family planning nursing division wic worksite wellness vital records view all disease prevention control clinical laboratories hiv/aids immunization infectious diseases outbreaks sexually transmitted diseases view all environmental services food, milk and lodging indoor lead/asbestos/air pollution onsite sewage view all preventative and other services all babies all kids rural health tobacco prevention control women's health view all population health services cancer registry (ascr) center for health statistics emergency preparedness injury prevention view all regulation, licensure, and training alphtn emergency medical services (ems) health care facilities pharmacy radiation control view all women breast cervical cancer family planning perinatal health plan first wic view all children all babies all kids newborn screening oral health view all health professionals ems lead contractors laboratories pharmacists radiographers others healthcare facilities men seniors teens a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z having trouble finding what you are looking for? use our a to z index or contact us . close search vital records home vital records birth certificate corrections/changes font size: increase font increase font share bookmark print menu vital records home id requirements birth certificates death certificates marriage certificates divorce certificates keepsake birth certificates apostille and exemplified copies (apostilla y copias ejemplificadas) adoption information certificates of foreign birth certificates for surrogate birth vital record providers forms vital statistics laws and rules contact us center for health statistics see also: county health departments need help? having trouble finding what you are looking for? use our a to z index . birth certificate corrections/changes corrections or changes to a birth certificate may be made in several ways. since the birth certificate is a legal document, appropriate legal requirements must be met to make the correction or change. general information is given below, but it is best to call the center for health statistics at (334) 206-2637 for additional information. identification requirements identification will be required to obtain a restricted birth certificate. view id requirements for more information. correcting erroneous information on the birth certificate information on a birth certificate that was entered in error when the birth certificate was originally prepared by the certifier (doctor, hospital, midwife, etc.) may be corrected through an amendment process as specified by law. legal documentation or a court action may be required to process the corrections requested. the birth certificate will be marked "amended" and the information corrected will be documented on the certificate. you may request corrections by completing an application and indicating the changes to be made to the birth certificate. this form is also available in spanish. application to change an alabama birth or death certificate paquete de enmiendas para certificados de nacimiento y defunci n de alabama mail the completed application with the required amendment fee of $20.00, which includes one certified copy of the amended record. additional copies of the same record ordered at the same time are $6.00 each. there is an additional fee of $15.00 to expedite a request. make check or money order payable to "center for health statistics." please do not send cash. fees are not refundable. send to: center for health statistics attn: birth amendments p.o. box 5625 montgomery, alabama 36103-5625 if you have any questions, call a birth amendment clerk at (334) 206-2637. changes after a legitimation or paternity determination legitimation and paternity determination are processes that establish the legal father of a child. when no father's name is listed on a birth certificate of a child, alabama law has special procedures for adding the father's name to the birth certificate. there are four ways by which a father's name can be added to the birth certificate: 1. court ordered legitimation - processed through a probate court 2. legitimation through marriage - processed by center for health statistics when parents marry after the birth of their child. 3. acknowledgment of paternity - processed by the county department of human resources or the center for health statistics if mother was not married at time of conception through birth. 4. uniform parentage act - processed by a circuit court (juvenile division) to determine (or establish) paternity of a child. note: in some cases, a court determination can remove a father from a child's birth certificate. all of these procedures have specific legal requirements that must be met before they can be used. add father's name to birth certificate of child you may request a change to a birth certificate to add the father of a child by completing an application indicating the changes to be made. note: the child's name may also be changed when the father's name is added to the birth certificate. application to add father to child's alabama birth certificate solicitud para agregar el padre al certificado de nacimiento de alabama del ni o mail the completed application with the required creation fee of $25.00, which includes one certified copy of the new record. additional copies of the same record ordered at the same time are $6.00 each. there is an additional fee of $15.00 to expedite a request. make check or money order payable to "center for health statistics." please do not send cash. fees are not refundable. send to: center for health statistics attn: parentage unit p.o. box 5625 montgomery, alabama 36103-5625 if you have any questions concerning any method of legitimation, call a parentage clerk at (334) 206-2637. changes after a recent adoption adopting parents or their legal representatives may request a certified copy of the adoptee's new birth certificate following a recent adoption. to find out more information, view the recent adoptions page. page last updated: february 20, 2025 see also: county health departments need help? having trouble finding what you are looking for? use our a to z index . facebook-f instagram brands fa-x-twitter youtube exclamation-triangle bug en español privacy statements policies free communication assistance alabama.gov back to top