correcting military service records | national archives top skip to main content the u.s. national archives home citizen archivists bookmark/share contact us search search main menu research our records veterans service records educator resources visit us america s founding documents veterans service records home veterans service records military service records correcting military service records request service records request military service records evetrecs help other methods to obtain service records special notice regarding requests military service records about service records correcting service records medical and health records locations of service records older (pre-wwi) service records what records are not available? information for veterans service officer (vso) information for congressional staff privacy and security of veterans records correcting military service records due to the department of defense guidance (dodi 1336.01) that requires the electronic creation and transmission of the dd form 215, national archives and records administration will no longer create a dd form 215 to make corrections to the dd-214. if the record in question is archival (discharged, retired, or died in service 62 years ago or earlier) you will need to apply to the review board for your respective service branch for corrections or changes. instructions on what to submit for each are listed below. if the record in question is not archival, you will need to request a correction from the personnel command of your respective service branch, i.e. navy personnel command, army human resources command, etc. please see the table below for the addresses of each command. if you are requesting a change to your character of service, i.e. dishonorable discharge upgraded to honorable, you will need to apply to the review board for your respective service branch. (do not submit these forms to the national archives. be sure to use the appropriate address for your service branch as listed in the table .) the following information is from the department of veteran's affairs guide to federal benefits for veterans and dependents and is provided as a courtesy. we encourage you to check directly with the va for updates or changes: military service record submit dd form 149, application for correction of military records to the relevant service branch. (you can either view and download the form, or right-click the form and select "save link as" or otherwise save the file and then open it.) discharge status submit dd form 293, application for the review of discharge or dismissal from the armed forces of the united states to the relevant service branch. correction of military records the secretary of a military department, acting through a board for correction of military records, has authority to change any military record when necessary to correct an error or remove an injustice. a correction board may consider applications for correction of a military record, including a review of a discharge issued by courts martial. the veteran, survivor or legal representative generally must file a request for correction within three years after discovery of an alleged error or injustice. the board may excuse failure to file within the prescribed time, however, if it finds it would be in the interest of justice to do so. it is an applicant’s responsibility to show why the filing of the application was delayed and why it would be in the interest of justice for the board to consider it despite the delay. to justify any correction, it is necessary to show to the satisfaction of the board that the alleged entry or omission in the records was in error or unjust. applications should include all available evidence, such as signed statements of witnesses or a brief of arguments supporting the requested correction. application is made with dd form 149, available at va offices, from veterans organizations or from ( dod forms management program ) webpage. review of discharges each of the military services maintains a discharge review board with authority to change, correct or modify discharges or dismissals that are not issued by a sentence of a general courts-martial. the board has no authority to address medical discharges. the veteran or, if the veteran is deceased or incompetent, the surviving spouse, next of kin or legal representative may apply for a review of discharge by writing to the military department concerned, using dod form 293. this form may be obtained at a va regional office, from veterans organizations or from the dod forms management program webpage. however, if the discharge was more than 15 years ago, a veteran must petition the appropriate service board for correction of military records using dod form 149, which is discussed in the “correction of military records” section of this booklet. a discharge review is conducted by a review of an applicant’s record and, if requested, by a hearing before the board. discharges awarded as a result of a continuous period of unauthorized absence in excess of 180 days make persons ineligible for va benefits regardless of action taken by discharge review boards, unless va determines there were compelling circumstances for the absence. boards for the correction of military records also may consider such cases. veterans with disabilities incurred or aggravated during active military service may qualify for medical or related benefits regardless of separation and characterization of service. veterans separated administratively under other than honorable conditions may request that their discharge be reviewed for possible recharacterization, provided they file their appeal within 15 years of the date of separation. questions regarding the review of a discharge should be addressed to the appropriate discharge review board at the address listed on dod form 293. service review boards: air force and space force: contact the air force review boards agency . army: contact the army review board agency (arba) . the army now accepts online applications for changes using the actsonline system. coast guard: contact the board for correction of military records of the coast guard navy and marine corps : the board for correction of naval records secretary of the navy - council of review boards (corb) , including naval discharge review board (ndrb) this page was last reviewed on july 20, 2026. contact us with questions or comments . veterans’ service records military service records request service records correct service records medical and health records about service records special notice regarding requests military research research veterans records online documents research exhibits of veterans records genealogy military records research in military records other veterans resources replace medals and awards veterans faq related sites veterans benefits and information locate service members employment resources connect with us facebook x instagram tumblr youtube blogs flickr contact us · accessibility · privacy policy · freedom of information act · no fear act · usa.gov the u.s. national archives and records administration 1-86-nara-nara or 1-866-272-6272 top