ohio bmv an official state of ohio site. here's how you know official websites use ohio.gov an ohio.gov website belongs to an official government organization in the state of ohio. secure .gov websites use https a lock or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. trusted applications are secured by ohid if you're asked to log in with an ohid - the state's best-of-breed digital identity - your privacy, data, and personal information are protected by all federal and state digital security guidelines. close menu keyboard_backspace licenses id cards registrations titles suspensions reinstatements military veterans documents fees bmv locations close cancel home / driver license id cards / acceptable documents driver license id cards ohio's real id ohio mobile id first issuance renewal reprint/duplicate non-u.s. citizens commercial driver cdl motorcycle/scooter restrictions mandatory insurance identification cards other information acceptable documents acceptable documents beginning may 7, 2025 , the federal government will no longer consider standard driver licenses and identification cards as sufficient forms of identification for air travel. tsa (transportation security administration) will require a federally-compliant driver license, identification card, or other acceptable form of identification such as a u.s. passport or military id to fly within the u.s. compliant card acceptable documents applicants must provide proof of: full legal name date of birth legal presence in the us social security number (ssn) see more information below. ohio street address two documents, from different sources, proving ohio street address that are listed on the acceptable document list are required for proof of ohio residency. proof of name change (if applicable) see more information below. compliant card acceptable documents lists acceptable documents list - compliant dl-id (english) acceptable documents list - compliant dl-id (spanish) acceptable documents list - compliant dl-id (somali) use our compliant card interactive checklist to assist you with what to bring with you to a deputy registrar agency. disclaimer : using this checklist does not guarantee document acceptance or issuance of a driver license or identification card. standard card acceptable documents applicants must provide proof of: full legal name date of birth legal presence in the us social security number see more information below. ohio street address proof of name change (if applicable) see more information below. standard card acceptable documents lists acceptable documents list - standard dl-id (english) acceptable documents list - standard dl-id (spanish) acceptable documents list - standard dl-id (somali) use our standard card interactive checklist to assist you with what to bring with you to a deputy registrar agency. disclaimer : using this checklist does not guarantee document acceptance or issuance of a driver license or identification card. proof of name change information is your current legal name the same as the name listed on your birth certificate, passport, or document(s) issued by the u.s. department of homeland security? if the answer is no you must connect your birth name with your current legal name. you must bring an original or certified copy of the following name change documents to make that connection: original or certified copy of a marriage certificate or marriage license certified copy of a decree of divorce, dissolution, or annulment of marriage certified copy of a court ordered name change note: if you have had more than one marriage, you may need to bring documentation from each marriage and/or divorce to connect your birth certificate, passport or u.s. department of homeland security documents to your current legal name. what do i need to bring for a compliant card, use this interactive checklist to assist you with what to bring to a deputy registrar agency. for a standard card, use this interactive checklist to assist you with what to bring to a deputy registrar agency. disclaimer : using these checklists do not guarantee document acceptance or issuance of a driver license or identification card. social security number information replacement social security card information from the social security administration form bmv 5745 application information for standard/compliant ohio driver license or id card may be used to prove ssn only if the applicant has previously established their ssn with the bmv. this form is also available at deputy registrar agencies to be filled out at the time of the transaction. how to complete the application (bmv form 5745) for an ohio driver license or id card (dl/id) ohio administrative code: 4501:1-1-21 related links acceptable documents digest of motor vehicle laws sample knowledge test schedule a driving or motorcycle skills test approved driving schools fees forms contact information do you have questions? chat mon - fri 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. or call us (844) 644-6268 ohio department of public safety ohio bureau of motor vehicles about the bmv newsroom online services more resources chat contact remote queueing terms and conditions privacy notice and policies accessibility ohio checkbook