global entry frequently asked questions | u.s. customs and border protection skip to main content an official website of the united states government here’s how you know here’s how you know official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock ( lock a locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. menu enter search term travel travel u.s. citizens/lpr mobile passport control canada and mexico travel know before you go international visitors esta know before you visit visa waiver program trusted traveler programs tsa precheck® global entry nexus sentri fast biometrics overview environments enhanced passenger processing privacy policy partners signage and informational materials media releases general aviation processing general aviation airport fact sheets general aviation processing faqs trade trade basic import and export exporting a motor vehicle importer/exporter tips importing a car internet purchases ace: the import and export processing system deployments frequently asked questions (faqs) reports support training and reference guides stakeholder engagement office of trade relations commercial customs operations advisory committee (coac) trade and cargo security summit (tcss) trade outreach webinars small business regulatory enforcement fairness act priority trade issues agriculture and quota antidumping and countervailing duty (ad/cvd) import safety intellectual property rights (ipr) revenue textiles/wearing apparel trade agreements rulings legal decisions customs bulletin and decisions electronic ruling requirements federal register notices informed compliance publications border security border security along u.s. borders border patrol strategy: 2025-2029 smart wall map border patrol history border patrol sectors missing alien program at ports of entry ofo strategy: 2026-2030 field operations cargo security protecting agriculture from the air and sea amo annual review: fy2025 amo leadership and organization amo operations missions amo operating locations international initiatives cbp attaches customs mutual agreements world customs organization newsroom newsroom media public media releases announcements spotlights press officers social media directory multimedia libraries accountability and transparency foia reading room policies, procedures and directives body-worn camera video releases cbp snapshot of operations stats and summaries cbp enforcement statistics custody and transfer statistics nationwide encounters migrant protection protocols cbp public data portal a typical day at cbp web performance, search customer satisfaction metrics publications catalog documents library forms frontline digital magazine about cbp about cbp who we are contact us leadership/organization history in memoriam archive search learn about cbp civil rights and civil liberties environmental management labs and scientific services mobile apps directory cbp link mobile application cbp home mobile application se busca campaigns del rio el paso, chihuahua san diego tucson yuma congressional resources congressional testimony congressional delegations congressional office faqs congressional staff resources careers careers career paths u.s. border patrol air and marine operations office of field operations office of trade office of professional responsibility other career opportunities applicant categories veterans persons with disabilities retired annuitant senior executive service prepare to apply applicant resources study guides employee resources employee resources family backup care child care eap eldercare financial wellness paid parental leave benefits dental and vision health insurance life insurance long term care tuition assistance retirement apply for retirement csrs fers military service deposit planning for retirement thrift savings plan work-life balance wellness healthiercbp peer support and chaplaincy substance abuse prevention suicide prevention veteran support program webinars new employee resources benefits and compensation forms and helpful information leave onboarding manager transportation benefits workplace flexibility home travel trusted traveler programs global entry frequently asked questions skip to body content travel general aviation preclearance for international visitors for u.s. citizens/lawful permanent residents trusted traveler programs trusted traveler mobile app nexus sentri tsa precheck® global entry enrollment on arrival for pedestrians and vehicles eligibility benefits how to apply contact us frequently asked questions enrollment on arrival enrollment on departure airports with global entry enrollment centers enrollment on embarkation global entry card international arrangements touchless portal instructions fast trusted traveler program denials remote interview apec travel card program faqs advisories and wait times biometrics clearing customs customer service for travel industry personnel for canadian and mexican citizens pleasure boats preventing international child abduction search authority ebadge trusted worker program travel skip to body content general aviation preclearance for international visitors for u.s. citizens/lawful permanent residents trusted traveler programs trusted traveler mobile app nexus sentri tsa precheck® global entry enrollment on arrival for pedestrians and vehicles eligibility benefits how to apply contact us frequently asked questions enrollment on arrival enrollment on departure airports with global entry enrollment centers enrollment on embarkation global entry card international arrangements touchless portal instructions fast trusted traveler program denials remote interview apec travel card program faqs advisories and wait times biometrics clearing customs customer service for travel industry personnel for canadian and mexican citizens pleasure boats preventing international child abduction search authority ebadge trusted worker program global entry frequently asked questions close all open all global entry search enter text to search all accordion content below. eligibility for global entry is criminal history a disqualifier for global entry? global entry is a risk-based approach to facilitate the entry of pre-approved travelers. applicants may not qualify for global entry participation if they: provide false or incomplete information on the application; have been convicted of any criminal offense or have pending criminal charges, including outstanding warrants; have been found in violation of any customs, immigration or agriculture regulations or laws in any country; are subjects of an ongoing investigation by any federal, state or local law enforcement agency; have been denied for the purchase of a firearm; have received a criminal pardon from any country; are inadmissible to the u.s. under immigration regulation, including applicants with approved waivers of inadmissibility or parole documentation; or if they cannot satisfy cbp of their low-risk status or meet other program requirements. what can i do if i was denied because of a prior firearm purchase denial? you can visit the fbi website for additional information ( https://www.fbi.gov/services/cjis/nics/national-instant-criminal-background-check-system-nics-appeals-vaf ). to challenge your firearm denial, please visit https://www.edo.cjis.gov/ or to submit a challenge through the mail, please mail your request to: fbi cjis division attn: criminal history analysis team 1 btc 3 1000 custer hollow road clarksburg, wv 26306 (when submitting a challenge via mail, include your nics transaction number (ntn) or state transaction number (stn). failure to include these numbers will delay processing.) can i join global entry if i am not a u.s. citizen or u.s. lawful permanent resident? ttp works with countries around the world to provide foreign nationals with access to the global entry program. there may be additional requirements you must meet depending on our country of citizenship. to find current foreign partner agreements and if additional requirements must be met, select an international arrangement and your country of citizenship. are all u.s. visa classifications eligible for participation in global entry? if your country has a bilateral trusted traveler arrangement with cbp, you may participate in global entry provided you are not entering the u.s. under one of the following visa categories: c-1 - alien in transit c-2 - alien in transit to united nations c-3 - foreign government official in transit h-1c - registered nurse h-2a - agricultural worker h-2b - unskilled worker h-2r - returning h-2b h-3 - trainee k-1 - fiancé of u.s. citizen k-2 - child of k-1 k-3 - spouse of u.s. citizen k-4 - child of k-3 m-1 - vocational student m-2 - spouse/child of m-1 n-8 - parent of sk-3 n-9 - child of n-8, sk-1, sk-2, sk-4 q-1 - participant in an international exchange program q-2 - irish peace process cultural and training program principal q-3 - spouse and minor children of q-2 s-5 - witness/informant s-6 - witness/informant s-7 - family members of s-5, s-6 t-1 - trafficking victim t-2 - spouse of t-1 t-3 - child of t-1 t-4 - parent of t-1 t-5 - sibling of t-1 u-1 - criminal activity victim u-2 - spouse of u-1 u-3 - child of u-1 u-4 - parent of u-1 u-5 - sibling of u-1 using global entry what do i do if the global entry processing technology states see officer for assistance ? you must report to a cbp officer at the nearest staffed cbp passport control booth. you do not have to get back in line. the cbp officer at the passport control booth will review your documents, determine the reason for the referral and either release you from there or refer you to "secondary" for additional processing. how is the arrival of the global entry mobile app going to improve travelers experience at airports? the global entry mobile app will allow members to validate their arrival into the u.s. on their ios or android device prior to entering the federal inspection services area which will expedite their processing time. do global entry benefits allow head-of-the-line privilege at u.s. airports without global entry technology? head-of-the-line privilege is only available at u.s. airports that have global entry. head-of-the-line privilege is reserved for program members if the processing technology is unavailable, if a member gets referred to a cbp officer, and at the exit points. as a u.s. lawful permanent resident, which document do i use with the global entry processing technology? u.s. lawful permanent residents must use their i-551 permanent resident card with the global entry processing technology. must i declare food items or products when using global entry? yes. you must declare all agricultural products that you bring into the united states. failure to declare agricultural products can result in up to $10,000 in fines and penalties. as a global entry member, am i required to use the global entry program when entering the united states? no. global entry members can choose not to use the global entry processing technology and can be processed by cbp officers. my travel companions (children, spouse, or co-travelers) are not global entry members; can they come through the global entry lane with me? no, only global entry members can use the global entry lanes. what do i do if i have a disability and need assistance during my interview for global entry? after you have submitted your application and scheduled an interview at a global entry enrollment center, contact the global entry enrollment center where your interview is scheduled to request a reasonable modification or auxiliary aid or service to complete the global entry application process. requests for a modification, aid, or service should be made as soon as possible and prior to the date of an interview to allow sufficient time for making the appropriate arrangements at the interview location. partner expedited travel programs i am a u.s. citizen enrolled in global entry, what benefits do i have for expedited entry? u.s. citizens enrolled in global entry may use the smartgate system when entering australia and/or new zealand without registration. u.s. citizens may apply for the dutch privium program, the korean ses program, panama's global pass, taiwan's e-gate, germany's easypass, or the mexican viajero confiable program for expedited entry into those countries. additional fees and enrollment interviews may apply. where can i find more information about tsa precheck expedited screening? the transportation security administration's (tsa) precheck allows for expedited airport screening at tsa checkpoints in specific airports. global entry members are eligible for tsa precheck benefits. for more information about tsa precheck. i am a korean citizen; can i apply for global entry? yes, korean citizens may apply for global entry. korean citizens must first enroll in the smart entry service (ses) program operated by the korean immigration service. as a korean citizen, what is the process to become a global entry member? korean citizens submit global entry applications through the korean government's website . after submitting the global entry application, korean applicants must then create a trusted traveler programs (ttp) account. applicants will log into the account and pay the $120 global entry application fee. once conditionally approval status is granted, applicants will be invited to schedule a global entry interview through their ttp account at an enrollment center or via enrollment on arrival when arriving to the u.s. on an international flight complete the enrollment process. does the korean ses program have a minimum age requirement? yes. to participate in global entry, korean applicants must be at least 17 years of age. global entry membership information where do i find my trusted traveler membership number? find your trusted traveler's membership number by logging into your trusted traveler programs (ttp) account. the membership number is listed toward the top of the page. the membership number, also known as your pass id, is also on the back of trusted traveler cards. i am a current global entry member. how do i update my passport information? all global entry members can update their passport information through their ttp account. click on "update documents." if the passport update involves a name change, you must visit a global entry enrollment center to update your information. how do i obtain a copy of my fbi identity history summary? if you would like a copy of your identity history summary, you may submit a request to the fbi. the fbi offers three options for requesting your summary or proof that a summary doesn't exist. for more information, please read the how to challenge and how to obtain your fbi identity history summary brochure. how do i challenge my fbi identity history summary? if you believe your identity history summary contains inaccurate or incomplete information, you may request a change or correction by contacting the agency or agencies that originally submitted the information to the fbi. however, most states require that changes of identity history summary information be processed through their respective state centralized agency (state identification bureau). for the state identification bureau listing refer to: www.fbi.gov/checks . for more information, please read the how to challenge and how to obtain your fbi identity history summary brochure. renewing global entry membership how do i renew my global entry membership? you become eligible to renew your membership one year prior to program expiration. if you submit a renewal application before your membership expires, you will be able to continue to use benefits up to 24 months after your membership expiration date. follow these steps to renew global entry membership: log on log onto the ttp website ( https://ttp.dhs.gov ). if you don't have a login.gov account, you will be directed to login.gov to create an account first then you will be prompted to setup your ttp account profile. on the profile page, you will need to associate the account with your passid (membership number). see the back of your trusted traveler card or your approval letter. renew from your dashboard, select the renew button on your global entry, nexus, sentri or fast program membership section. you must declare your citizenship (if you are a us citizen, you declare "u.s."). select select the program that you wish to renew. you may select to renew another program for which you are eligible. however, remember that depending on the program you choose, your benefits may change. on the next page, acknowledge the program requirements. follow follow the guidelines provided on the membership renewal page. confirm and continue when you have updated all information in the application, on the final review page, click confirm and continue in each section. at the bottom of the page, click save and continue . certify on the certify page, answer yes or no to "do you certify?" next select next . the purchase summary page will display. check fees are for application processing and are non-refundable. check the box under the total application fee to agree and proceed. select pay now. the online payment page displays. after payment, you will be returned to your ttp dashboard. will i need to be interviewed again when i renew my program membership? an interview for program membership renewal may not be necessary. once you submit your renewal application and fee, check your ttp account periodically for updates on what actions are necessary to complete the renewal process. you will receive an email when your membership status changes. global entry cards who receives global entry cards? only u.s. citizens, u.s. lawful permanent residents, and mexican nationals are issued global entry cards. how are global entry cards used? cbp accepts global entry cards for lawful u.s. entry at land and sea ports of entry. global entry cards have radio frequency identification, which enables their use at sentri and nexus expedited travel lanes entering the u.s. global entry cards are not valid for entry into canada via the nexus lanes and kiosks. global entry cards are not accepted at global entry kiosks, which require passports or u.s. lawful permanent resident cards. global entry card holders must follow all program rules for sentri and nexus when using the card at land and sea ports of entry. how do i get a global entry card for use with sentri or nexus travel lanes? cbp began issuing global entry radio frequency identification (rfid) cards on july 12, 2011, to new global entry members who are u.s. citizens, u.s. lawful permanent residents, and mexican nationals (who do not already have a sentri card) at no additional cost. must i obtain a global entry card? no, it is not necessary to obtain a global entry card to continue using global entry an airport. a card is only required for expedited entry at the sentri and nexus lanes coming into the united states. when will i receive my global entry card? new members will receive their global entry card 2-4 weeks after approval for global entry. how will i receive my global entry card? if you have a u.s. address, the card will be mailed there. if you do not have a u.s. address, it will be sent to your designated u.s. point of contact or to a global entry enrollment center that you designate. how do i activate my global entry card prior to use at nexus/sentri lanes? activate your card within 30 days of receipt or you will be unable to use your card at the trusted traveler lanes. to activate your card, log into your ttp account. after you sign in, click on the activate membership card button under the program membership(s) section on the homepage. how do i replace a lost, stolen or damaged nexus, sentri or global entry card? you can request a replacement card by logging into your ttp account and selecting manage membership. next select request for global entry card. a $25 fee is charged for the replacement card. by requesting the replacement card, the original card will be deactivated and no longer functional. for global entry members at nexus/sentri lanes how do i add nexus to my existing global entry membership? log into your ttp account. from your dashboard click on the "add trusted traveler program." select the checkbox next to the nexus option. you will need to provide additional information and answer questions; (some of these questions are very similar). once all the application information is entered/ corrected, certify your application and pay the fee. applicants seeking to use nexus to enter canada must complete an enrollment interview with the canada border services agency. how do i register my vehicle before using the global entry card in sentri lanes? global entry members who wish to drive their vehicle in the sentri lanes, must register their vehicle with cbp and schedule an appointment at a sentri enrollment center to conduct a 7-point vehicle inspection. how do i register my vehicle before using the global entry card in nexus lanes? there are no additional requirements for a member to use the nexus lanes coming into the u.s. however, global entry cards are not valid for entry into canada via the nexus lanes and kiosks; travelers must apply separately for nexus. what does it cost a global entry member to get the nexus or sentri benefit? if you register your vehicle in sentri as part of your initial global entry application, there is no fee. if you wish to register your vehicle after your initial application, you must pay a $42 registration fee for a cbp vehicle inspection at a sentri enrollment center. for nexus and sentri members using global entry as a current nexus or sentri member, how can i use global entry? all current nexus members, u.s. citizens, and u.s. lawful permanent residents who are sentri members, are eligible to use global entry once they provide fingerprints and document information to cbp. if cbp already has your fingerprints and document information on file, you can use global entry without further action and at no additional cost. if you are a mexican national in sentri, you must apply for global entry through your ttp account. for additional global entry benefit information, log on to your ttp account. can i use my global entry card with the global entry processing technology? no, when you use the global entry processing technology, you will need to use your passport or u.s. lawful permanent resident card, if required. global entry cards do not work when entering the u.s. by air. can i use my sentri card with airport global entry processing technology? no, when you use the airport global entry processing technology, you will need to use your passport or u.s. lawful permanent resident card, if required. the sentri cards do not work when entering the u.s. by air. can i use my nexus card with the global entry processing technology? the nexus card will be recognized by the global entry processing technology at canadian preclearance locations only. when using global entry at canadian preclearance locations you can use your passport, u.s. lawful permanent resident card, or nexus card. you cannot use your nexus card with the global entry processing technology outside of canadian preclearance locations. at all other ports of entry, you will need to use your passport or u.s. lawful permanent resident card. who is eligible to apply for sentri? anyone with a travel document is eligible to apply for sentri. how can i cancel an appointment within 24 hours of my appointment? contact the information center at 1 (877) 227-5511 to cancel or reschedule within 24 hours. children and travel companions do my global entry benefits extend to my travel companion(s) (children, spouse, or co-traveler) who is/are not part of the global entry program? global entry benefits are member specific and cannot be extended to others. are children able to enroll in global entry? yes. children may enroll in global entry. minor children 17 years or younger are required to have parental or legal guardianship permission. minor children 17 years or younger are free if their parent or legal guardian is an enrolled member or have submitted a trusted traveler program application. the application of the parent or legal guardian must be in pending risk or conditionally approved status. will members be eligible for a refund of their children’s global entry application fees submitted prior to october 1, 2024? no, payments made prior to october 1 will not be refunded by cbp. prospective members who wish to enroll their children may elect to wait until after october 1 to take advantage of the fee exemption for certain minors under 18. will travelers who apply before oct. 1 be charged the new fee? the new fee, and fee exemption for applicants under 18 years of age, will only be applied to applications received on or after october 1, 2024. can my child/children enroll in global entry if i am not a member? minor children that do not have a parent or legal guardian enrolled in global entry may enroll. a parent or legal guardian must give permission and must be present at the time of the interview. enrollment on arrival (eoa) can i participate in eoa if i haven’t received my conditional approval yet? no. applicants must have already completed the application through trusted traveler programs (ttp) website. and received a conditional approval notification to complete the eoa. what do i do if i already have an interview scheduled at an enrollment center? you can still participate in eoa upon arriving in the united states at an eoa eligible airport if you already have an interview scheduled. simply proceed to the eoa cbp booth upon arrival at the cbp federal inspection services area. how do i cancel my enrollment center appointment if i’m able to complete an eoa interview? your scheduled interview will be canceled automatically after you complete the enrollment on arrival process. no further action is needed on your part. can i participate in enrollment on arrival if i have a domestic flight that either departs, arrives, or connects through an eoa airport? no. only those who are entering the u.s. customs and border protection area after arriving from an international flight can participate in eoa. individuals traveling through domestic airports may verify whether the airport has an enrollment center at which they may schedule an interview or can immediately accept conditionally approved persons to complete walk-in enrollments. you may verify the locations and enrollment centers’ hours of operation online through the trusted traveler website . do i need to indicate my intent to participate in enrollment on arrival in my ttp account? no. a global entry conditionally approved applicant may simply arrive at an eoa booth in the cbp federal inspection services area at a participating airport. will cbp reimburse me for adjusting my travel plans to travel through an eoa airport? no. traveling to an eoa participating airport is a decision of convenience for the applicant. what if i’m traveling with a mixed party- some travelers being conditionally approved and others not? how do we proceed through the u.s. customs and border protection area when we arrive in the united states? this depends on the airport at which you’re arriving. please check with a cbp officer at the enrollment on arrival port of entry to determine if your complete travel party can utilize the eoa lane. what materials/documents will i need to bring to my eoa interview? to complete the interview via eoa, you must be in possession of the following documents: a valid passport. if you travel using more than one passport, please bring them all to the interview so that the information can be added to your file. documents providing evidence of residency. examples are: driver's license (if the address is current), mortgage statement, rental payment statement, utility bill, etc. this is not required for minors. a permanent resident card (if applicable). how soon after my eoa interview will i learn of my final decision? the final decision notification timeline can vary. please monitor your email and check your ttp account for updates regarding the status of your global entry application. when will eoa expand to other airports and under what criteria? u.s. customs and border protection is currently planning to expand eoa to additional airports. travelers can review the eoa webpage on the cbp website for eoa expansion updates. increase to membership fees where do i get more information regarding the fee change? notices in the federal register may be found at: harmonization of the fees and application procedures for the global entry and sentri programs and other changes (adults) increase in the nexus application fee and change in the nexus application fee for certain minors will the fee increase impact the already submitted application? no, the fee increase will not affect previously submitted applications that have been approved or are currently in progress. will travelers who apply before oct. 1 be charged the new fee? the new fee, and fee exemption for applicants under 18 years of age, will only be applied to applications received on or after october 1, 2024. why is there such a significant increase to nexus fees? as the trusted traveler programs matured and expanded, cbp unified certain aspects of the programs. for example, they now have an identical application process, and most members can enjoy nearly all the benefits of the other two programs; nexus and certain sentri members are eligible to use global entry processing technology in airports, and most global entry members are eligible to use sentri and nexus lanes at land borders. despite the nearly identical application process and reciprocal benefits, each of these trusted traveler programs has a separate fee structure. as such, cbp is harmonizing the application fees to distribute costs for all of these trusted traveler programs. the nexus fees were established over 20 years ago, and the new fees account for this fact. a fee study was completed, and a notice of proposed rulemaking was published ahead of this change. how is the fee changing for sentri applicants? the fee structure for sentri applicants submitted prior to october 1, 2024, maintains the following schedule: application fee = $25 ($50 max per family) fingerprint fee = $14.50 dcl fee = $82.75 ($165.50 max per family) effective october 1, 2024: the fee for sentri applicants is changing from an a la carte fee structure to a uniform $120 for adults and $0 for minors under the age of 18, consistent with cbp’s global entry and nexus programs. last modified: jun 24, 2026 global entry benefits no processing lines no paperwork access to expedited entry available at major u.s. airports reduced wait times apply now! related resources know before you go cbp.gov an official website of the u.s. department of homeland security about cbp section 508 accessibility accountability dhs components forms freedom of information act (foia) inspector general no fear act vulnerability disclosure program privacy contact us site policies the white house usa.gov freedom 250 back to top