section 9.05 - ohio revised code | ohio laws skip to main content revised code keywords section number go to section laws ohio constitution ohio revised code ohio administrative code about about contact contact related sites related sites back to top top home laws ohio constitution ohio revised code ohio administrative code about contact related sites go to revised code number go revised code keywords the legislative service commission staff updates the revised code on an ongoing basis, as it completes its act review of enacted legislation. updates may be slower during some times of the year, depending on the volume of enacted legislation. section 9.05 | sex recognition policy. ohio revised code / general provisions / chapter 9 miscellaneous effective: september 30, 2025 latest legislation: house bill 96 - 136th general assembly pdf: download authenticated pdf (a) as used in the revised code: (1) "boy" means a juvenile human male. (2) "female" means a person belonging, at conception, to the sex that produces the large reproductive cell. (3) "gender identity" means an individual's internal and subjective sense of self, disconnected from biological reality and sex and existing on an infinite continuum, that does not provide a meaningful basis for identification and cannot be recognized as a replacement for sex. (4) "girl" means a juvenile human female. (5) "male" means an individual belonging, at conception, to the sex that produces the small reproductive cell. (6) "man" means an adult human male. (7) "sex" means the biological indication of male and female, including sex chromosomes, naturally occurring sex hormones, gonads, and nonambiguous internal and external genitalia present at birth, without regard to an individual's psychological, chosen, or subjective experience of gender. (8) "woman" means an adult human female. (b) it is the policy of the state of ohio to recognize two sexes, male and female. these sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality. last updated august 1, 2025 at 8:42 am available versions of this section september 30, 2025 enacted by house bill 96 - 136th general assembly [ view september 30, 2025 version ] disclaimer contact about