adult | colorado judicial branch skip to main content secondary navigation about media careers online payments english english español colorado judicial branch courts trial courts by county trial courts by district court of appeals supreme court water courts community and educational resources livestreaming probation self-help and forms self-help resources self-help forms programs court services financial services probation services vendor resources public access access guide to public records bond status report court data-sharing task force data and reports docket search e-filing for attorneys e-filing for non-attorneys find virtual courtrooms digital court - courtcall pilot information for attorneys on the board report sealed case search jury jury jury commissioners by county colorado jury service video jury faqs summons sent to old address search toggle navigation main navigation courts trial courts by county trial courts by district court of appeals supreme court water courts community and educational resources livestreaming probation self-help and forms self-help resources self-help forms programs court services financial services probation services vendor resources public access access guide to public records bond status report court data-sharing task force data and reports docket search e-filing for attorneys e-filing for non-attorneys find virtual courtrooms digital court - courtcall pilot information for attorneys on the board report sealed case search jury jury jury commissioners by county colorado jury service video jury faqs summons sent to old address secondary navigation about media careers online payments english english español search breadcrumb home | self-help resources | name changes | adult fraudulent court appearance text messages targeting colorado residents learn more 9/7/26 - labor day closure learn more name change adult step 1: prep instructions jdf 432 - filing a change of name fingerprinting history check a fingerprint-based criminal history check is required from both the cbi (colorado bureau of investigation) and the fbi (federal bureau of investigation). law enforcement agencies are no longer required to provide fingerprinting for civil cases. some law enforcement agencies will refer you to colorado application background services (cabs) . the criminal history results must be conducted within 90 days prior to the filing of the petition. if you have a felony conviction recorded in colorado or any other state, and you know that it is inaccurate, it is your responsibility to obtain the disposition information from the court where such action occurred as identified in the cbi and fbi reports. you are also responsible for providing certified copies of any criminal dispositions that are not reflected in the cbi or fbi records, and any other dispositions which are unknown, by contacting the agency where such actions occurred. step 2: forms forms for adult name change jdf 432 - instructions for filing a change of name - adult jdf 433 - petition for change of name (adult) jdf 426 - order for publication for change of name jdf 427 - public notice of petition for change of name (minor/adult) jdf 448 - final decree for change of name read the jdf 432 - instructions for filing a change of name - adult thoroughly before you start the name change process. complete all sections of form jdf 433 - petition for change of name (adult). attach the fingerprint-based fbi and cbi criminal history checks to the petition and identify them as "exhibit a". make sure that the fingerprint-based criminal history record checks are conducted within 90 days prior to the filing of the petition. attach any other criminal disposition documentation and identify it as "exhibit b". the petition must be signed in the presence of a court clerk of notary public. you can find a notary public by looking in the yellow pages, on the internet, or by going to your local bank. complete all sections of form jdf 426 - order for publication for change of name, but do not sign it. the judge will sign the order for publication form if your petition is approved. once the order is granted by the court, then publication with a newspaper will be the next step. complete all sections of form jdf 427 - public notice of petition for change of name (minor/adult). this is the form that you will submit to your local newspaper to publish notice of the requested name change. once publication has occurred, you will need to file proof of publication with the court. complete the caption box only of form jdf 448 - final decree for change of name. the judge or magistrate will sign the decree. this form will be returned to you only upon proof of publication. this form proves that the name change has been granted by the court. take your completed forms to the courthouse in the county where you live. a name change can be filed in county court or district court. check with the clerk when you file your case to determine what court (county or district) the case should be filed in. if you do not think you can afford it, you can request a waiver of the filing fee by completing form jdf 205 - motion to file without payment and supporting financial affidavit, and the caption box of jdf 206 - finding and order concerning payment of fees to request a waiver of the filing fee or visit our file without payment for complete information. step 3: file with the court contact the court in the county where you are filing your name change petition to find out their process. to find the correct court, search courts by county. use the checklist below to make sure you are prepared: form or process checklist: contact the court for filing procedures background checks from the fbi and the cbi (make sure they are not more than 90 days old) jdf 433 - petition for change of name (adult) jdf 426 - order for publication for change of name jdf 427 - public notice of petition for change of name (minor/adult) jdf 448 - final decree for change of name step 4: publish after the court reviews the jdf 433 - petition for change of name, it may issue a jdf 426 - order for publication for change of name. you will have to contact your local newspaper agency and have your proposed name published using jdf 427 - public notice at least three times within 21 days from the date when the order for publication was entered. there are exceptions for publishing your name change in the newspaper if you have been: the victim of a crime, the underlying factual basis of which has been found by the court to include an act of domestic violence as defined in §18-6-800.3(1), c.r.s., or the victim of child abuse as defined in §18-6-401, c.r.s., or the victim of domestic abuse as defined in §13-14-101(2), c.r.s. publication is not required if the petitioner is changing the petitioner’s name to conform with the petitioner’s gender identity pursuant to §13-15-102(4), c.r.s step 5: decree the final decree will be issued once proof of publication is provided to the court. if the publication was waived or was not necessary, the final decree for change of name will be issued by the court after the hearing. certified or extra copies of the decree will have separate fees and some courts may request a self-addressed, stamped envelope to mail out the decree. colorado judicial branch ada accommodations accessibility information interpreter services contact information holidays workplace culture initiative a-z directory glossary of legal terms how do i? tips how do you like our website? follow us: judge william young furse is a district court judge for the 22 nd judicial district of colorado and presides over criminal, civil, probate, domestic relations, juvenile matters, and appeals. judge furse received his bachelor’s degree from the university of illinois urbana-champaign in 2001 and earned his law degree in 2005 from john marshall law school in chicago, illinois. prior to taking the bench, judge furse began his legal career in durango, colorado, serving as a deputy state public defender for the 22nd and 6th judicial districts. from 2009 to 2012, judge furse worked in private practice as a solo practitioner focused on criminal defense and served as a contract public defender for the ute mountain ute tribe. from 2012 to 2020, judge furse served two terms as the elected district attorney for the 22nd judicial district. following his term-limited service, judge furse was assistant district attorney for the 22 nd district and briefly returned to private practice in 2022 until his appointment to the bench on january 10 th , 2023. adobe stock colorado judicial branch colorado judicial branch adobe stock adobe stock colorado judicial branch colorado judicial branch colorado judicial branch colorado judicial branch adobe stock colorado judicial branch colorado judicial branch denver special collections adobe stock stock image adobe stock photo judges and staff from the 23rd judicial district (photo by andrew alderson) chief judge ryan stuart speaks at 23rd judicial district opening ceremony. (photo by andrew alderson) please see qr code for trial livestream - select boulder county, courtroom g. self-help center - room s116 at the el paso county judicial building image of colorado supreme court courtroom, by jeffrey beall, is licensed under cc 3.0 unporte