filing fees fee waiver - alaska court system skip to content back to top alaska court system self-help search home admin appeals forms library media rules self-help trial courts home / self-help / filing fees fee waiver filing fees fee waiver filing fees fee waiver filing fees administrative rule 9 sets the fee schedule for all court proceedings and services. here are the fees for opening various cases. there is a $75 fee in divorce and custody cases to file a motion to modify child custody, visitation or support or spousal maintenance or property division. in other cases, there are no additional fees once you have opened a case unless you request copies, etc. type effective 5/1/2023 adoption $100 change of name (child or adult) $200 debt collection up to $100,000 $150 debt collection over $100,000 $250 depositing a will $50 divorce, dissolution, custody or paternity $250 motion to modify a final alaska order or decree awarding child custody, child support, or spousal support or allocating property when parents do not agree $75 joint or stipulated (parents agree) motion to modify a final alaska order or decree awarding child custody, child support, or spousal support, or allocating property free register a foreign child support order free register a foreign child custody order $150 register a foreign domestic relations order that is not for child custody or support $150 register a foreign domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking protective order free motion to modify a registered foreign child custody order when parents do not agree $75 joint or stipulated (parents agree) motion to modify a registered foreign child custody order free motion to modify a registered foreign child support order when parents do not agree or when parents agree (joint or stipulated) free motion to modify a registered foreign domestic relations order that is not for custody or child support when parents do not agree or when parents agree (joint or stipulated) free petition for expedited enforcement of a non-registered child custody order $100 motion to enforce a final alaska order or a registered foreign order free register a foreign order register a foreign adoption order $50 register a foreign guardianship or conservatorship order $50 file ancillary probate letters from a foreign court (authenticated copies of letters testamentary or letters of administration from a foreign court) $50 register a foreign money judgment $150 register a foreign non-money judgment, except those listed above $150 forcible entry and detainer (eviction) with up to $100,000 in damages $150 forcible entry and detainer (eviction) with over $100,000 in damages $250 other civil cases not listed $250 guardianship $150 probate of estates $250 protective orders - domestic violence, stalking, sexual assault, or financial abuse free small claims $50 if dispute is $2,500 or less; $100 if dispute is more than $2,500 certification of documents $10/first, $3 each additional copy fees per document (not page) $5/first, $3 each additional records research $30.00 note: there are other fees associated with appealing a case. fee waiver filing fees are set forth in administrative rule 9 , fee schedule. instructions for requesting waiver of filing fee for all cases except state prisoner litigation to request waiver of the filing fee for your case, submit the following form when you file your case: tf-920 - request for exemption from payment of fees state prisoner litigation if you are incarcerated and filing civil litigation* against the state of alaska, you must file the following to request a waiver of the filing fee: civ-670 - prisoner request for filing fee exemption cr-206 - financial statement a certified copy of your account statement for the past six months from the department of corrections. * civil litigation includes applications for post-conviction relief, civil lawsuits, appeals of civil judgments, and appeals from final decisions of administrative agency. fee waiver when filing the complaint or starting the case usually, you file the tf-920 with your complaint and other papers when you go to open your case. the court will hold on to your complaint until after the judge rules on the waiver. if it is granted, the clerk will fill out the bottom half of your summons. you cannot serve the other party until after you get the completed summons, and you will not get a completed summons until after the tf-920 has been ruled on. at some courts, you must return to the court to get your completed summons, other courts will issue it automatically after the waiver is granted. check with your local court to make sure you understand the procedure in using this form and getting the completed summons. fee waiver when filing a motion to modify if you are requesting a fee waiver for a motion to modify, you should wait to serve the other side until you receive the fee waiver or pay the filing fee. once you serve the other side, you'll need to file a certificate of service showing when and how you gave him/her a copy. you may file: certificate of service, shc-1620 word | pdf if you have not heard from the court within a week of filing the tf-920, be sure to call them. these requests are usually ruled upon within a few days. calendars forms jury service pay online request copies search cases glossaries / legal terms language assistance legal notices locations hours represent yourself restitution collection accessibility careers contact us court system information site index terms of use