name change toggle navigation home forms all forms change custody change visitation change child support child support conservatorship custody paternity divorce guardianship housing misc civil forms misc family law name change no contact order protection orders set aside small claims tax intercept objection visitation resources local events publications legal services about us local offices ada adams bannock bear lake benewah bingham blaine boise bonner bonneville boundary butte camas canyon caribou cassia clark clearwater custer elmore franklin fremont gem gooding idaho jefferson jerome kootenai latah lemhi lewis lincoln madison minidoka nez perce oneida owyhee payette power shoshone teton twin falls valley washington forms forms are available in microsoft word and pdf formats. choose another forms category change custody change visitation change child support child support conservatorship custody paternity divorce guardianship housing misc. civil forms misc. family law name change no contact order protection orders set aside small claims tax intercept objection visitation name change adult name change step 1 file petition for name change instructions name change (adult and minor) pdf 1. general civil case information sheet rtf pdf 2. unredacted petition for name change (adult or emancipated minor) rtf pdf 3. redacted petition for name change (adult or emancipated minor) rtf pdf 4. notice of hearing on petition for name change (adult) rtf pdf step 2 publish the notice of hearing take the notice of hearing and the letter below to the newspaper to publish once a week for 4 consecutive weeks. 1. letter requesting publication of notice rtf pdf 2. list of designated county newspapers to determine where your notice of hearing must be published pdf step 3 prepare judgment and attend hearing 1. judgment for name change (adult) rtf pdf minor name change step 1 file petition for name change instructions name change (adult and minor) pdf 1. general civil case information sheet rtf pdf 2. unredacted petition for name change (minor) rtf pdf 3. redacted petition for name change (minor) rtf pdf 4. notice of hearing on petition for name change (minor) rtf pdf step 2 publish the notice of hearing you must either obtain consent from the other parent or have the parent served with the documents. 1. parental consent to name change (minor) rtf pdf or 2. affidavit of service on petition for name change and notice of hearing (minor) rtf pdf 3. list of designated county newspapers to determine where your notice of hearing must be published pdf take the notice of hearing and the letter below to the newspaper to publish once a week for 4 consecutive weeks. 4. letter requesting publication of notice rtf pdf step 3 prepare judgment and attend hearing 1. judgment for name change (minor) rtf pdf multiple minor name change step 1 file petition for name change instructions name change (adult and minor) pdf 1. general civil case information sheet rtf pdf 2. unredacted petition for name change (multiple minors) rtf pdf 3. redacted petition for name change (multiple minors) rtf pdf 4. notice of hearing on petition for name change (multiple minors) rtf pdf step 2 notify the other parent and publish the notice of hearing you must either obtain consent from the other parent or have the parent served with the documents. 1. parental consent to name change (minor) rtf pdf or 2. affidavit of service on petition for name change and notice of hearing (minor) rtf pdf 3. list of designated county newspapers to determine where your notice of hearing must be published pdf take the notice of hearing and the letter below to the newspaper to publish once a week for 4 consecutive weeks. 4. letter requesting publication of notice rtf pdf step 3 prepare judgment and attend hearing 1. judgment for name change (multiple minors) rtf pdf common idaho filing fees $207 divorce with children $207 divorce without children $166 child custody $166 child support $166 paternity $154 motion to reopen or modify divorce $216 minor guardianship $136 answer/response $166 name change $166 unlawful detainer (eviction for non-payment of rent) $69 small claims $81 small claims appeal $29 change of venue disclaimer the information provided on this website is legal information only and is not legal advice. even if you follow all instructions you are not guaranteed a favorable result. please consult with a lawyer for legal advice. on this site we include links to other websites for informational purposes only. we do not endorse and are not responsible for the content on external sites. more links accessibility privacy security cybersecurity icourt portal: search your records idaho guide and file state of idaho looking for another state resource? select resource state of idaho online records portal idaho supreme court idaho judicial council idaho commission on human rights idaho fish and game > copyright state of idaho 2015-2026