washington state courts - court forms get email updates | faqs & eservice center forms court directory opinions rules courts programs & organizations resources courts home > court forms name changes name change petitions may be filed in any district court in the state. but in some instances, name changes may be filed in superior court. you should review rcw 4.24.130 to determine in which court to file your name change petition. generally, a petition for name change and an order for name change must be completed. please note that these forms are not available on the washington state courts web site. you will need to contact the court in which you are filing your name change to obtain the needed forms. contact information for all county courts is available in the washington court directory . name change fees vary depending upon the county and possibly on the number of persons named on the petition. you will need to contact the court in which you are filing your name change to determine the exact fees. you can expect that once the petition has been completed, the case will be presented to a judge for approval and signature. once the name change has been approved, if you wish to change your birth certificate, and if you were born in washington state, you will need to send certified copies of all the completed paperwork to: department of health center for health statistics p.o. box 47814 olympia, wa 98504-7814 records case records caseload reports court dates judicial information system (jis) jis link odyssey portal records requests resources civic learning court news court program accessibility digital accessibility jury duty procurement opportunities resources, publications, and reports self help state law library whistleblower policy quick links court closures and emergency modifications to operations court forms court opinions court rules protection order forms emergency procedures eservice center pattern jury instructions translations /chinese /korean p /russian espa ol/spanish ti ng vi t/vietnamese about administrative office of the courts appellate and trial courts careers contact us programs and organizations supreme court privacy and disclaimer notices sitemap copyright 2026. washington state administrative office of the courts. n1