vital records: amending a vital record | wisconsin department of health services skip to main content an official website of the state of wisconsin here’s how you know here’s how you know official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock ( lock locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. a-z index careers languages العربية (arabic) english (english) español (spanish) français (french) हिन्दी (hindi) hmoob (hmong) lingála (lingala) ລາວ (lao) bahasa melayu (malay) ဗမာစာ (myanmar (burmese)) ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (punjabi) پښتو (pashto) русский (russian) kinyarwanda (kinyarwanda) soomaaliga (somali) shqip (albanian) kiswahili (swahili) українська (ukrainian) اردو (urdu) tiếng việt (vietnamese) 简体中文 (chinese (simplified)) search menu search about dhs acronym glossary american rescue plan act funding for wisconsin business opportunities civil rights client rights contacts by service area dhs regions by county divisions and offices employee information file a complaint or report fraud forms library governor evers proposed 2025-2027 budget hipaa memos library news releases newsletter library open records requests our locations publications library rural health transformation program service areas statutorily required reports statutory boards, committees and councils vision, mission, and values vital records work at dhs: career opportunities data statistics a-z listing of topics behavioral risk factor surveillance system births infant deaths cancer communicable disease surveillance data deaths environmental public health tracking family health survey hiv immunization rates lead poisoning, childhood life expectancy marriages divorces mental health statistics occupational health safety prams (pregnancy risk assessment monitoring system) public benefit program data public health profiles reporting data to dhs respiratory virus data sexually transmitted diseases substance use wastewater monitoring wish (wisconsin interactive statistics on health) query system diseases conditions a-z listing of topics childhood communicable diseases chronic disease prevention covid-19 disease prevention disease reporting fight the bite! food poisoning fungal infections illnesses spread by animals illnesses spread by mosquitoes illnesses spread by ticks illnesses spread by water immunizations invasive bacteria mental health outbreaks under investigation respiratory viruses sexually transmitted diseases skin infections substance use disorders health care coverage badgercare plus care4kids consumer guide to health care coordinated specialty care crisis services do-not-resuscitate (dnr) information end of life planning family care family planning only services find a health care facility or care provider find affordable health insurance forwardhealth free or low cost clinics health insurance portability and accountability act (hipaa) immunizations iris (include, respect, i self-direct) long-term care insurance partnership (ltcip) medicaid in wisconsin medicaid purchase plan (mapp) medical records fees mental health non-emergency medical transportation organ, tissue, and eye donation prenatal care coordination prescription drug assistance services for children with delays or disabilities substance use supplemental security income-related medicaid wisconsin chronic disease program (wcdp) wisconsin well woman program (wwwp) long-term care support adult protective services aging and disability resource centers (adrcs) blind and visually impaired client rights deaf, hard of hearing, and deaf-blind dementia family care find a health care facility or care provider iris (include, respect, i self-direct) medicaid in wisconsin medicare counseling national core indicators project services for children services for older adults services for people with developmental/intellectual disabilities services for people with physical disabilities wisconsin wayfinder: children s resource network prevention healthy living adolescent health brain health childhood experiences and health chronic disease prevention climate and health commercial tobacco prevention and treatment community support programs (csp) dose of reality: opioids environmental health homelessness immunization program individual placement and support injury and violence prevention lead poisoning prevention lgbtq health maternal and child health mental health nutrition and food assistance nutrition and physical activity occupational health oral health program peer services real talks wisconsin: change the conversation on substance use resilient wisconsin small talks substance use suicide prevention supervised release tobacco is changing wisconsin state health plan for partners providers area administration aging and disability resource centers civil rights compliance electronic visit verification eligibility management emergency medical services forwardhealth community partners funding information grant enrollment, application and reporting system (gears) health alert network health it program healthcare-associated infections: resources for health professionals home and community-based services waivers local public health long-term care and support medicaid state plan memos library mental health services minority health mywisconsin id nursing home reimbursement preadmission screening and resident review primary care program health emergency preparedness and response public health registries: promoting interoperability public health workforce development resources for legislators substance use services trauma care system tribal affairs uniform fee system wic vendor wisconsin state health plan certification, licenses permits a-z listing of topics caregiver programs dhs dqa provider portal environmental certification, licenses, and permits health and medical care licensing and certification mental health treatment programs plan review residential and community-based care licensing and certification substance use treatment programs wic vendor licensing a-z index careers languages العربية (arabic) english (english) español (spanish) français (french) हिन्दी (hindi) hmoob (hmong) lingála (lingala) ລາວ (lao) bahasa melayu (malay) ဗမာစာ (myanmar (burmese)) ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (punjabi) پښتو (pashto) русский (russian) kinyarwanda (kinyarwanda) soomaaliga (somali) shqip (albanian) kiswahili (swahili) українська (ukrainian) اردو (urdu) tiếng việt (vietnamese) 简体中文 (chinese (simplified)) home about dhs vital records vital records: amending a vital record vital records: home application forms requesting a record amending a record local vital records services adoptions genealogy vital statistics contact us vital records vital records: amending a vital record the information below explains the steps you need to follow to amend a wisconsin vital record. how to correct a birth record when the birth occurred less than 365 days ago about two weeks after the birth of a child, the mother will get a notification of birth registration form in the mail. you can use this form to make corrections to and order copies of the birth record. if you need to make a correction to a birth record you’ve already ordered, mail the incorrect certificates back to our office. also include a signed note stating what needs to be corrected. we’ll send corrected certificates back to you. if you need to change any part of your child’s name, please contact us. you’ll need to fill out a name change within the first year of life form. for a one-time name change within 365 days after the child’s birth, there is no charge. how to correct a birth record when the birth occurred more than 365 days ago if you have a certified copy of the record, mail it to our office with a note explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be. we’ll look over the record and send you the amendment instructions if needed. if you don’t have a certified copy of the record: apply for a certified copy using the normal application process. submit your application explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be. we’ll look over the record and send you amendment instructions if needed. how to correct a death record when the death occurred less than 365 days ago if the death happened less than one year ago, corrections can still be made by the funeral director. this includes changes to name, date of birth, marital status, address, etc. if changes must be made to the cause-of-death section, they must be made by the medical certifier. how to correct a death record when the death occurred more than 365 days ago if the death occurred more than one year ago, a court order is needed to make corrections. if you have a certified copy of the record, mail it to our office. with it, add a note explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be. we’ll look over the record and send you the court order forms and instructions if needed. if you don’t have a certified copy of the record: apply for a certified copy using the normal application process. submit your application explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be. we’ll look over the record and send you the court order forms and instructions if needed. how to correct a marriage record when the marriage occurred less than 365 days ago if the marriage occurred less than one year ago, the officiant or the county clerk who issued the license can make corrections. for more information, please contact our office . how to correct a marriage record when the marriage occurred more than 365 days ago if the marriage occurred more than one year ago, a court order is needed to make corrections. if you have a certified copy of the record, mail it to our office. with it, add a note explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be. we’ll look over the record and send you the court order form and instructions if needed. if you don’t have a certified copy of the record: apply for a certified copy using the normal application process. submit your application explaining what is incorrect and what the correct information should be. we’ll look over the record and send you the court order form and instructions if needed. how to amend a birth record following a legal name change or confidential legal name change to learn more about getting a legal name change or confidential legal name change, contact the clerk of court in the county where you live. see listing of all wisconsin clerks of court (pdf) . we can accept a legal name change court order from any court in the united states or canada. once a legal name change or confidential legal name change court order has been issued, submit a certified copy of it to our office. “certified” means the document contains an original court seal. the certified court order will be returned to you once the name change has been finished in our office. the fee to file a legal name change or confidential legal name change court order in our office is $10. this doesn’t include a certified copy of the amended birth certificate. the first certified copy is $20, and each extra copy is $3. once a confidential legal name change has been processed, a court order is required for any future copies of the record to be issued. we highly recommend submitting fees for birth certificates when submitting your confidential legal name change court order and fee, since you will need to get a court order to release the birth record in the future. wisconsin law requires that when a legal name change is processed, the birth certificate must have an annotation showing the date of the amendment, the authority for the amendment, which items were amended, and the old information for those items. this annotation is required by law for both standard and confidential legal name changes. please mail to: wisconsin vital records attn: pssu po box 309 madison, wi 53701 how to amend a birth record following a sex change to change the sex on a birth record, after a sex change, please mail the following: a certified copy of a court order from the united states or canada that orders the sex designation on the birth record to be changed. a $20 fee to file the court order. this does not include a certified copy of the new birth certificate. the first certified copy is $20, and each extra copy is $3. how to change birth certificate labels from mother-father to parent-parent if you’d like to change your or your child’s birth certificate labels from mother-father to parent-parent, please contact the vital records office by email at dhsvitalrecords@wisconsin.gov or call 608-266-1373. questions? contact us glossary last revised april 18, 2025 wisconsin agencies careers public meeting notices price transparency your rights website policies site feedback contact dhs protecting and promoting the health and safety of the people of wisconsin connect with dhs back to top