general information - division of motor vehicles skip to content skip to navigation agencies news topics contact search important message from delaware division of motor vehicles division of motor vehicles about us director's message what is dmv? dmv location map hours/contact wait times employment faq's tolls forms & manuals driver services vehicle services translate dmv menu search division of motor vehicles general information menu section home information sample driving exam beware of scams! vital statistics information changing your name/address megan's law - sex offender renewals for active duty military dmv fees organ donor program requesting a copy of your driving record replacement documents (license or id card) selective service system registration voter registration service countdown pedestrian signals voter registration service contact us dmv customer service changing your name/address name change within 30 days after legally changing your name, you must personally go to an office of the division of motor vehicles to change the name on your driver license. prior to arriving at the division, if you have not already done so, you should report to the social security office with identification and the official document(s) (e.g., court documents, divorce decree, marriage certificate, etc.) that caused your name to be legally changed to update their records. please allow 72 hours after updating your information with the social security office before reporting to the division to change your name on your driver license or identification card. this time will allow the division's and the social security's databases to be updated and match. please also bring to the division your old driver license and all name change documents. the division will issue you a new license for . if you have any questions regarding this process, please call (302) 744-2506 . please note, you must change your name with the social security administration 48 - 72 hours prior to coming to the dmv. address change after changing your delaware address, you have thirty (30) days to notify both the vehicle registration and driver's license sections of the division of motor vehicles. to update your driver license or id card to reflect your new address, you can conveniently do so online at dmv.de.gov/onlineservices or visit any dmv location at no additional fee. (see the vehicle equipment , titles , registration and insurance section for changing the address on your vehicle registration.) information director's message about the agency faqs employment deldot dart ezpass services online services drivers services vehicle services i.d. card services transportation services toll services forms and manuals wait times senior drivers teen driver dmv programs dmv fees laws and regulations service disclaimer: customers are required to wear shirts and shoes in order to conduct business at dmv. services will not be rendered if customers are not wearing shirts or shoes. thank you for your understanding. reasonable modifications: in accordance with the americans with disabilities act (ada), the delaware division of motor vehicles (dmv) will make reasonable modifications to policies, practices, and procedures when necessary to provide access to individuals with disabilities. if you need a reasonable modification for your dmv visit, please email dmvcustomerservice@delaware.gov or call 302-744-2500 in advance of your visit for assistance and guidance. contact us division of motor vehicles wilmington : (302) 434 3200 delaware city : (302) 326 5000 dover : (302) 744 2500 georgetown : (302) 853 1000 email: dmv customer svc + government and services delaware's governor state agencies elected officials general assembly delaware courts state employees cities towns delaware state code state regulations business first steps phone directory locations directory public meetings voting elections transparency delaware marketplace tax center personal income tax privacy policy weather travel contact us corporations franchise tax gross receipts tax withholding tax delaware topics help center mobile apps e-mail / text alerts social media make text size smaller reset text size make text size bigger built by the government information center mmxvi delaware.gov -