real id proof of identity-full legal name, date of birth and lawful presence | dmv sorry, you need to enable javascript to visit this website. skip to main content dmv department of motor vehicles dc agency top menu 311 online agency directory online services accessibility mayor muriel bowser all dc dmv locations will be closed in observance of labor day on saturday, september 5 and monday, september 7. on february 5, the georgetown dmv service center experienced a significant water main break. due to flooding impacts, the georgetown dmv service center will remain closed to the public until further notice. dc dmv s services will remain available at our other locations , online and via our mobile app . due to a systematic issue with real-time authorization, the ach/electronic check payment feature has been temporarily removed from all dmv online and mobile app transactions. our team is working with the office of the chief financial officer (ocfo) to resolve the matter. contactless, credit/debit card, cash, and check payments continue to be accepted in person. search form x search dmv home online services license and id driver licenses non-driver identification cards learner permits and provisional licenses proof of social security number for new district residents driver education and testing information commercial driver license medical requirements motorcycle endorsement state-to-state verification service ignition interlock device (iid) program intelligent speed assistance (isa) program change of address proof of identity real id proof of lawful presence name changes and corrections proof of current district of columbia residency vehicle services vehicle registrations parking and reciprocity permits vehicle tags vehicle inspections and safety programs vehicle titles vehicle insurance disability tags and placards historical vehicles buying and selling a vehicle dc dmv dealer’s corner online dealer interface system (odis) nmvtis international registration plan (heavy duty commercial carriers) what to do if your vehicle was stolen in dc ticket services pay tickets respond to a ticket request reconsideration after contesting how to file an appeal multi-vehicle fleet ticket service ticket alert service booted or towed vehicles print a copy of parking ticket registration of out-of-state automobiles (rosa) file a motion to vacate ticket adjudication ombudsman virtual hearings business services commercial carriers and heavy vehicles taxicab or limousine services vehicle insurance companies lienholder information—repossession procedures forms about dmv all dc dmv locations interpreter and translation services holiday closing schedule emergency closures agency partnerships open government and foia fraud reporting news room and publications contact us dc municipal regulations and dc register career opportunities with dc dmv annual reports and strategic plan dc dmv historical data dc dmv privacy policy dmv live chat fact vs fiction dc dmv in your language dmv fees dmv organizational chart director s biography for the media need help? ask dc dmv a question! dmv employee spotlight license and id driver licenses non-driver identification cards learner permits and provisional licenses proof of social security number for new district residents driver education and testing information commercial driver license medical requirements motorcycle endorsement state-to-state verification service ignition interlock device (iid) program intelligent speed assistance (isa) program change of address proof of identity real id proof of lawful presence name changes and corrections proof of current district of columbia residency department of motor vehicles office hours varies by location. please see all dc dmv locations under about dmv in the menu. phone: (202) 737-4404 tty: 711 ask the dmv a question! አማርኛ (amharic) 中文 (chinese) français (french) 한국어 (korean) español (spanish) tiếng việt (vietnamese) gabriel robinson director - a + a listen real id proof of identity-full legal name, date of birth and lawful presence to apply for a real id driver license or real id identification card, you must provide one source document from the list below. dc dmv will not accept documents that are not listed below to satisfy proof of identity and date of birth. note: the documents listed may also serve as proof of lawful presence, with the exception of the items mark with (**). source documents must be original and must list your full legal name and date of birth. unexpired us passport or passport card us birth certificate or birth certification card filed with a state office of vital statistics consular report of birth abroad (crba) issued by the us department of state unexpired permanent resident card certificate of naturalization certificate of us citizenship unexpired foreign passport with accompanying visa** unexpired employment authorization card** real id driver license, learner permit, or identification card** letter with picture from court services and offender supervisor agency (csosa), dc department of corrections (dc doc) or us probation office certifying name, date of birth, social security number, and address (for id card only). this is known as a csosa and dc doc sole source document. this is an exception process that may only be used to receive a 6-month identification card if none of the other acceptable documents is available. after the initial 6 months, csosa and dc doc applicants will be required to undergo a re-validation process and provide acceptable source documents, excluding the original csosa or dc doc sole source document (i.e., csosa and dc doc sole source document will not be an acceptable document to use for re-validation after the 6-months id card has expired). **note: document source may not be used as proof of lawful presence . if you have a name change due to marriage, divorce, or a court order (which includes adoption), you are also required to bring (in addition to the above documents) your marriage/divorce certificate or court documents to show proof of your name change . documents that are altered, counterfeit, torn, laminated, erased, whited out, etc., are not originals and are not accepted by dc dmv. follow us on x facebook mobile maps webcasts rss data subscribe more resources resources district news mayor's public schedule citywide news citywide calendar subscribe to receive emails subscribe to text alerts subscribe to newsletters district initiatives green dc age-friendly dc sustainable dc connect dc great streets ready dc about dc open dc budget emancipation consumer protection contracts property quest contact us agency directory call 311 contact the mayor contact agency directors foia requests report website problems service request center accessibility privacy and security terms and conditions google translate disclaimer about dc.gov