amendments court orders | south dakota department of health skip to main content about work with us contact us search search submit search menu site navigation topics topics find topics meant to equip people and providers in south dakota with the information they need to make informed decisions for their health and wellbeing. browse topics browse the a-z index adolescent young adult health alzheimer s related dementia american indian health cancer children s health chronic disease disease prevention services environmental diseases food lodging safety healthcare-associated infections healthy living infectious diseases immunization vaccinations infant health injury prevention long-term care maternal child health oral health public health nursing tobacco undo the risk vital records women s health programs programs the south dakota department of health delivers a wide range of public health programs to prevent disease, promote health, and ensure access to health care. browse all programs view grants programs services bright start cancer programs cor health wellbeing childhood lead poisoning prevention program diabetes program fall prevention coalition head forward health link healthysd.gov let s be clear medical cannabis newborn screening sd plan pregnancy care program sd quitline safe sleep scrubs camp servsd statewide emergency registry of volunteers simulation in motion - south dakota south dakota suicide prevention undo the risk wow wic work with us licensing records licensing records find professional licensing boards for health care professionals, vital records for south dakotan citizens, and register of deeds offices in the state. licensing and records vital records find a register of deeds office health facility licensure professional licensing boards food lodging safety healthcare professionals healthcare professionals access surveying and licensing information, public health laboratory testing, preparedness resources, response resources and a statewide trauma registry. health care professionals careers and recruiting emergency medical services health facility licensure health alert network (han) advance directives medical orders newborn and child resources public health preparedness and response rural health servsd simulation in motion - south dakota state public health laboratory trauma system vaccine providers data reports data reports view reports, surveys and statistics surrounding south dakota youth, behavioral risks, birth, death, marriage, divorce and abortions and more. browse all reports health data reports american indian data reports behavioral risk factor surveillance system (brfss) chronic disease data reports data dashboards environmental health data reports food and lodging data reports health facility reports infectious communicative disease data reports injury prevention maternal child health mortality data office of health statistics sexually transmitted diseases data reports sd health care workforce data substance use data reports youth risk behavior survey (yrbs) data reports vital statistics laboratory laboratory the state public health laboratory provides environmental chemistry, forensic chemistry, and medical microbiology testing. laboratory environmental testing forensic testing medical microbiology testing packaging and shipping chemical and bioterrorism laboratory resources news statutes news statutes all news south dakota dept. of health educational materials catalog news statutes press releases educational videos download resources publications statutes rules email subscriptions health holidays in this section vital records order vital records vital records fees certificate of birth resulting in stillbirth vital records eligibility identification birth records over 100 years marriage requirements homeless birth certificate waiver genealogy resources amendments court orders open adoption records vital records news home licensing and records vital records amendments court orders amendments birth certificates a birth certificate may be amended upon the request of the registrant if of legal age, one of the parents, the guardian, or the individual responsible for filing the certificate. under 1 year both parents listed on the birth record are required to sign the birth record amendment under 1 year form in front of a notary public. print under 1 year amendment form no fee or supporting documentation is required for amending a birth record that is under 1 year old. over 1 year note: arsd 44:09:05:12 states that any amendment to a surname on a vital record made a year or more after the event occurred requires an order from a court of competent jurisdiction unless the amendment makes a minor spelling change. see court orders below for more information. the birth record amendment request form must be signed by the applicant in front of a notary public. print birth record amendment request form the fee to amend a record over 1-year-old is $8. documentary evidence showing the correct information is required to support the amendment. 1-7 years old: the document must be dated at least one year prior to the date of application. 7 years and older: the document must be dated at least 7 years prior to the date of application. one original, certified, or authenticated document is required to show how the item for amendment should be listed. all documents will be returned to you. suggested documents: baptismal certificate census record medical record military record marriage record insurance policy cradle roll record school record early income tax record tribal membership papers parent’s naturalization papers early application for employment or retirement record application for voting registration social security numidrent (no ss cards accepted) marriage records note: arsd 44:09:05:12 states that any amendment to a surname on a vital record made a year or more after the event occurred requires an order from a court of competent jurisdiction unless the amendment makes a minor spelling change. see court orders below for more information. a marriage record may be amended upon the request of either of the registrants, the individual who solemnized the marriage, the local registrar filing the marriage, or a legal representative acting on behalf of one of the registrants. the marriage amendment request form must be signed by the applicant in front of a notary public. print marriage record amendment request form no fee or supporting documentation is required for amending a marriage record that is under 1 year old. the fee to amend a record *over 1-year-*old is $8. documentary evidence showing the correct information is required to support the amendment. 1-7 years old: the document must be dated at least one year prior to the date of application. 7 years and older: the document must be dated at least 7 years prior to the date of application. one original, certified, or authenticated document is required to show how the item for amendment should be listed. all documents will be returned to you. suggested documents: baptismal certificate census record medical record military record marriage record insurance policy cradle roll record school record early income tax record tribal membership papers parent’s naturalization papers early application for employment or retirement record application for voting registration social security numidrent (no ss cards accepted) court order court-ordered name change to file a court-ordered name change on a vital record, you must provide a certified copy of the court order that directs the record be amended and provides the following information: information to identify the certificate; the incorrect data as it is listed on the certificate; and the correct data as it should appear. the fee to file the amendment on a record over 1-year-old is $8. there is no fee required if the record is under 1 year old. you must follow proper court procedure when seeking a change on a birth certificate. for instructions on how to obtain a court-ordered name change please contact an attorney or visit the south dakota unified judicial system website for the applicable forms. content last updated: january 9, 2025. for questions, contact: vital records office 221 w. capitol avenue pierre, sd 57501 email: vitalrecords@state.sd.us local: 605-773-4961 fax: 605-773-2680 south dakota department of health 600 east capitol avenue pierre, sd 57501-2536 (605) 773-3361 doh.info@state.sd.us media relations: dohmedia@state.sd.us department secretary: melissa magstadt quick links doh home sd doh about sd doh news sd doh work with us doh intranet request public records legal privacy sd.gov accessibility policy privacy policy disclaimer hipaa notice