fees skip to main content services agencies about news and events contact office locations i am looking for wellness and prevention services diseases and conditions emergency preparedness and response environmental health family health healthy living injury, – violence and safety injury prevention laboratory services data and statistics health data and statistical reports dphhs dashboards a healthier montana senior services adult protective services adrc resource directory aging and disability resource center (adrc) aging horizons aging services area agencies on aging assisted living (licensure) centenarians estate planning / legal services home and community based services information and assistance/referral lifespan respite long term care ombudsman montana pharmacy assist program nursing facilities and other living options nutrition options counseling senior and long term care division ship - state health insurance assistance program health coverage and other assistance montana medicaid federal marketplace assistance programs child and adult care food program children’s special health services healthy montana kids healthy montana kids plus montanans with disabilities children’s mental health services snap (supplemental nutritional assistance program) tanf (temporary assistance for needy families home energy, water and weatherization assistance programs wic (women, infants and children) disability services adult protective and legal services aging disability resource center (adrc) americans with disabilities act blind and low vision services children's mental health ddp medicaid waiver overview developmental disabilities program disability determination services disability employment transitions home and community based services independent living services lifespan respite intensive behavior center montana relay public transportation coordination long term care ombudsman qualified sign language interpreters vocational rehabilitation youth transitions family services adolescent health child and adult care food program child care provider's dashboard child support services children’s special health services children’s trust fund early childhood services bureau montanans with disabilities pregnancy and early childhood licensing and certification certifying healthcare services licensing healthcare and residential services licensing childcare licensing restaurants facilities state-run healthcare facilities montana state hospital - warm springs mental health nursing care center - lewistown intensive behavioral center - boulder montana chemical dependency center - butte veterans' homes eastern montana veteran’s home - glendive montana veteran’s home - columbia falls southwest montana veteran's home - butte i am a dphhs provider mt medicaid childcare healthcare dphhs partner tribal tribal websites building healthy systems a healthier montana local local health departments building healthy systems a healthier montana person interested in child support services diseases and conditions emergency preparedness and response environmental health family health healthy living injury, – violence and safety injury prevention laboratory a-z index dphhs is offering one-time incentive payments to recruit employees at montana s state-run health care facilities. for more information go to work4dphhs.com vital records fees office of vital records fee schedule effective september 21, 2024 type cost (non- refundable) notes certified birth certificate $16 informational birth certificate $16 may be issued to anyone if the birth certificate being requested is for a birth occurring 30 or more years ago. search $10 for a record search within any period of 5 years or less for marriage, divorce, death, or birth. the fee is $10 plus an additional $1 per year for each year searched of more than five years. a letter will confirm or deny if a record is found. certified death certificate $16 informational death certificate $16 certified copies of documents on file $16 paternity acknowledgements, affidavits, court orders. adoption (or rescission) and name change processing $41 $25 to process and $16 for the certified birth certificate. each additional bc is $16. open sealed file $41 $25 to process and $16 for the certified birth certificate. each additional bc is $16. homebirth birth certificate processing $41 $25 to process and $16 for the certified birth certificate. each additional bc is $16. delayed registration of a record $41 $25 to process and $16 for the certified birth certificate. each additional bc is $16. process correction of an error $0 if the amendment is requested within 1 year from the date of filing of the vital record. process correction of an error $41 if the amendment is requested after 1 year from the date of filing of the vital record. $25 to process and $16 for the certified birth certificate. each additional bc is $16. putative father registry search $10 per name. provide electronic copies of index files $50 $50 per monthly update and $50 per annual update. producing aggregate statistics $50 per hour fee for programming and processing if it takes more than 30 minutes of work. montana secretary of state arm 37.8.116 fees for certification, file searches, and other vital records services language assistance notice of use of protected health information legislature careers nondiscrimination notice / policy contact webmaster accessibility, disclaimer and web standards privacy security accessibility