faqs - louisiana office of motor vehicles an official louisiana.gov website. here's how you know the .gov means it’s official. louisiana government websites often end in .gov. before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a louisiana government site. the site is secure. the https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. phone: (225) 925-6146 translate book appointment contact us vehicles drivers businesses resources locations online services alerts vehicles title and registration new title registration used title registration duplicate replacement registrations registration renewal notice of vehicle transfer statement of non-use parish tax table electronic lien title plates special personalized plates mobility impaired hang tags plates heavy truck plate calculator cancel plate international registration plan irp apportioned plates irp updates unified carrier registration (ucr) trip permits mobile home immobilization vehicle registration, title plate fees drivers driver s license status check personal driver s licenses new licenses license renewal real id permits duplicate / replacement / reconstructed cards license transfers official driving record notice of violation medical vision requirements commercial driver s licenses (cdl) new cdl cdl renewal cdl transfer cdl medical certificate information self-certification inquiry non-domiciled clp/cdl cdl entry level driver training cdl driver education drug and alcohol clearinghouse cdl official driving record driver s education information student/parent information how to open a driving school portal for existing driving schools list of driving schools list of driving schools (alternate languages) adaptive trainers / third party testers id cards driver reinstatement suspensions disqualifications cancellations revocations installment payment plan agreements eligibility payments businesses salvage yard auto hulk tow/storage facility junk car database insurance salvage retention temporary tags auto title companies and public tag agents cdl third party testers electronic title or lien cdl entry level driver training resources book appointment omv social media omv policy issuance of driver s license driver s license laws safety responsibility laws vehicle registration requirements vehicle license plate classifications requirements forms documents driver s license forms vehicle title and registration forms driver s management bureau (reinstatement) forms driving school forms special plate inventory forms international registration plan (irp) governmental agency request forms dps petition for rulemaking omv jobs faqs la wallet driver manuals mailing and delivery info combating human trafficking insurance reporting specifications nmdp donor registry approved interlock manufacturers and installers locations online services alerts vehicles drivers businesses resources locations online services alerts vehicles title and registration new title registration used title registration duplicate replacement registrations registration renewal notice of vehicle transfer statement of non-use parish tax table electronic lien title plates special personalized plates mobility impaired hang tags plates heavy truck plate calculator cancel plate international registration plan irp apportioned plates irp updates unified carrier registration (ucr) trip permits mobile home immobilization vehicle registration, title plate fees drivers driver s license status check personal driver s licenses new licenses license renewal real id permits duplicate / replacement / reconstructed cards license transfers official driving record notice of violation medical vision requirements commercial driver s licenses (cdl) new cdl cdl renewal cdl transfer cdl medical certificate information self-certification inquiry non-domiciled clp/cdl cdl entry level driver training cdl driver education drug and alcohol clearinghouse cdl official driving record driver s education information student/parent information how to open a driving school portal for existing driving schools list of driving schools list of driving schools (alternate languages) adaptive trainers / third party testers id cards driver reinstatement suspensions disqualifications cancellations revocations installment payment plan agreements eligibility payments businesses salvage yard auto hulk tow/storage facility junk car database insurance salvage retention temporary tags auto title companies and public tag agents cdl third party testers electronic title or lien cdl entry level driver training resources book appointment omv social media omv policy issuance of driver s license driver s license laws safety responsibility laws vehicle registration requirements vehicle license plate classifications requirements forms documents driver s license forms vehicle title and registration forms driver s management bureau (reinstatement) forms driving school forms special plate inventory forms international registration plan (irp) governmental agency request forms dps petition for rulemaking omv jobs faqs la wallet driver manuals mailing and delivery info combating human trafficking insurance reporting specifications nmdp donor registry approved interlock manufacturers and installers locations online services alerts all omv customer service centers will be closed monday, sept. 7, 2026, in observance of labor day × web results close frequently asked questions home / resources / faqs drivers personal (class d e) how do i change the name on my driver s license? the office of motor vehicles has online verification with the social security administration. all name changes must be recorded with the social security administration before you visit the office of motor vehicles. to have your name changed on your license, you must go to the office of motor vehicles with original documentation that supports the name change (i.e., certified birth certificate, state-certified marriage license, divorce decree, probate court documents, etc.), your current license, proof of residency and proof of insurance for any vehicle you own. you will be required to pass a vision test. minors, 17 years of age or younger, must be accompanied by a custodial parent or legal guardian with a picture i.d. in the case of joint custody, only the domiciliary parent may sign. fee: $17.00 for a six-year license (a local fee may apply not to exceed $8). the name change is considered as a duplicate license and the expiration date of the license does not change. if the applicant possesses multiple louisiana credentials such as an id card or mobility-impaired hangtag, the name must also be changed on those documents. the name on all credentials must be changed at the same time. how do i change the address on my driver s license? louisiana law requires that you notify the louisiana office of motor vehicles within 10 days any time your address changes. you must appear in person to have this transaction completed. please take your driver’s license and proof of insurance for any vehicle you own. proof of insurance is required on all motor vehicle transactions, as well as proof of residency. fee: $17.00 for a 6-year license (a local fee may apply which will not exceed $8). minors, 17 or under, must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian with a picture i.d. in the case of joint custody, only the domiciliary parent may sign. note: if you own a vehicle, please have the address corrected on the certificate of registration. changing the address on your driver's license does not automatically change the address on any vehicles you may own. if your driver's license expires within 90 days, you will be required to renew it. what if i don t receive the duplicate credential i applied for online at www.expresslane.org? if the duplicate credential was not received, the applicant must allow for a 30-day waiting period from the date of application and must visit a field office within sixty (60) days of application to be eligible for a replacement credential at no charge. what is real id? on may 7, 2025, u.s. travelers must be real id compliant to board domestic flights and access certain federal facilities. find out if you’re real id ready with our real id checklist . the real id act enacted the 9/11 commission's recommendation that the federal government “set standards for the issuance of sources of identification, such as driver's licenses.” the act established minimum security standards for state-issued driver's licenses and identification cards and prohibits certain federal agencies from accepting for official purposes licenses and identification cards from states that do not meet these standards. the enforcement date is may 7, 2025. these purposes are: accessing certain federal facilities boarding federally regulated commercial aircraft entering nuclear power plants is real id being enforced today? beginning may 7, 2025, every louisiana resident will need to present a real id compliant license/id, or another acceptable form of identification, for accessing federal facilities, entering nuclear power plants, and boarding commercial aircraft. the card, itself, must be real id compliant unless the resident is using an alternative acceptable document such as a passport or passport card, or state-issued enhanced driver’s license. how do i change my class e driver s license to a class d chauffeurs license? bring your driver's license proof of residency and proof of insurance for any vehicles you own to your local office of motor vehicles. you will be required to take and pass the chauffeurs knowledge test and the vision test only. you will not be required to take a road skills test. review the louisiana driver's guide and study chapter 10. the guide is available online. if you have time remaining on your class e driver's license it will be credited towards the fee for the change. minors must be age 17 and require parental consent for issuance. fee: $54.75 (a local fee may apply not to exceed $6) is there a grace period for an expired driver s license? there is a 10 day grace period after expiration where you may renew your license without paying additional fees. how do i obtain a motorcycle endorsement? a separate license to operate a motorcycle is not issued in louisiana. once an applicant proves he is qualified, a motorcycle endorsement is added to the existing louisiana license. bring your driver's license, proof of residency and proof of insurance to a local office of motor vehicles. all applicants must successfully pass the vision exam. additional testing is based on whether the applicant has attended a motorcycle training safety course. applicants who have successfully completed the "department of public safety, motorcycle safety, awareness and operators training program." on or after october 28, 2011, will be exempt from the knowledge and skills test. any certificate with a course completion date prior to october 28, 2011, will exempt the applicant from the skills test requirement only.​ a skills test will not be required for applicants that have completed a course offered by certain course providers. for a list of course providers click here . a course schedule may be found at http://www.lsp.org/motorcycle.html . applicants may voluntarily participate in the program if they meet the qualifications of the department of public safety and corrections to apply for a motorcycle operator's endorsement. applicants must provide the original certificate as proof of completion. applicants, which have not attended the course described above, will be required to successfully pass the knowledge test and a road skills test. the motorcycle study guide is available on our website. applicants will be required to furnish the motorcycle used in the skills test. the motorcycle must have a current license plate, proof of current insurance and a current inspection sticker. a motorcycle helmet is required for the skills test. fee: $18.00 (a local fee may apply not to exceed $8). some motor vehicle offices do not administer the road skills tests between 11:00 am and 1:00 pm. some offices schedule road skills tests. check the field office directions for the road skills test schedule of your nearest office. skills tests are not given during inclement weather. why do i have to pay a fine to the court and a fine to the office of motor vehicles? if you failed to appear in court or to pay your traffic fine on or prior to your court date, the court issued an order to the office of motor vehicles to suspended your driving privileges by the authority of r.s.32:57.1. the fine paid to the court is for the traffic ticket and/or court cost. the fine paid to the office of motor vehicles is a reinstatement fee for the reinstatement of your driving privileges. can i remove the restriction on my driver s license after having corrective vision surgery? you can remove the corrective lenses restriction on your driver’s license after vision correction surgery at your local office of motor vehicles. please take your driver’s license proof of residency and proof of insurance if you own an automobile. you will be required to take and pass the vision test. fee: $17.00 for a 6-year license (a local fee may apply which will not exceed $6 regardless of the duration of the license). can i renew my driver s license/id card if i am temporarily out of state/country? you may be eligible for a renewal of your license/id card if you meet the following criteria: you are a full-time student attending classes out of state/country (copy of current student id required) you are military or military dependent (copy of current military id and copy of enlistment papers or letter from commanding officer required) your privileges are not canceled/suspended or revoked. your privileges have not been expired for more than 12 months. we have a photo in our database. your last renewal was not a mail-in/web renewal (where a sticker was issued) or a reconstructed license. you would, otherwise, meet the criteria to renew via mail/web. you must submit a completed and signed application and attach appropriate documents and fees. fees must be submitted in the form of a cashier's check or money order made payable to the office of motor vehicles. this office does not accept checks for driver's license issuance. if you are military and you have not visited our office for renewal within the last 5 years, with a copy of your enlistment papers/deployment orders, we may be able to mark your record "valid military" which will keep your license valid until 60 days after discharge. a $15.00 late fee will apply if the license is more than 10 days expired. driver's license renewal (class d or e) fees class e - $32.25 class d - (orleans parish) - $66.00 motorcycle endorsement renewal - add $12.00 identification card (id) renewal fee class i (id card) - $18.00 this office does not accept personal checks, however, certified check, cashiers check or money order made payable to the office of motor vehicles. mailing address: office of motor vehicles attention: reconstructed license p o box 64886 baton rouge, la. 70896 phone inquiries local baton rouge - 225.925.4195 once the application and fee have been submitted, allow approximately 7-10 days for the license to be processed and mailed. can i register for the military selective service at the local office of motor vehicles? effective july 1, 2026 , the louisiana office of motor vehicles will no longer submit information for male applicants between the ages of 15 and 26 to the selective service system when issuing a credential. for more information or to register, please visit www.sss.gov . i was issued a ticket in louisiana but i am not licensed there. where do i pay for the ticket? you must contact the court indicated on the ticket to pay your fine. the state of louisiana does not have any information regarding the ticket you were issued. if your home state has notified you about the failure to pay the ticket you should contact them for information regarding which louisiana court you will have to contact. how do i obtain a letter indicating that i do not have a driving record in louisiana? you must make a written request for this letter. include your full name, date of birth and social security number. attach a copy of your out-of-state driver's license or birth certificate and a $5.00 fee. the fee must be in the form of a money order, cashiers check or certified check. no personal check are accepted. please allow 10 working days for processing. mail to: omv p.o. box 64886 baton rouge, la 70896 how do i obtain an official driving record? an official driving record (odr) can be purchased online or through the mail. by mail: to purchase an odr for yourself by mail submit a written request to include your: name (exactly as it appears on your driver's license) date of birth address (where you want the report mailed) sex driver’s license number (if known) enclose a money order or certified check in the amount of $16.00 and mail to: office of motor vehicles attention: odr p.o. box 64886 baton rouge, la 70896 online: to purchase an odr online go to www.expresslane.la.gov . the information entered must be entered exactly as it appears on the driver's license. only credit or debit cards are accepted for this transaction. the cost is $18.00. this fee is charged whether you view only or view and print the odr and once purchased you have 30 days from the date purchased to print another copy free of charge. if requesting an odr for anyone other than yourself, you will need written authorization/waiver from the licensee to release their personal information to you. why does my insurance company have information regarding an accident that is not on my official driving record? insurance companies may have access to an insurance database that records data on all claims paid from the result of a motor vehicle accident. these are not records maintained by the office of motor vehicles. what appears on my official driving record (odr) and for how long do violations remain? the following violations will appear on your odr and the retention period for violations vary depending on the type of violation. dwi, vehicle negligent injury and out-of-service convictions remain on the record for 10 years from the date of conviction or 55 years if you are a cdl holder. administrative per se (refusal/submits) are displayed for a ten year period from the date of arrest or until all requirements have been met. however, they are not displayed while the record is pending. other major traffic convictions (suspendable/disqualifying violations) remain on the record for 5 years from the date of conviction. minor traffic convictions remain on the record for 3 years from the date of conviction. where can i get a list of motor vehicle office locations, directions, and hours? a complete list of omv offices and public tag agents can be found at https://offices.omv.la.gov/ driver's education how do i open a driving school? opening a driving school is a multi-phase process. click here for a checklist. phase 1 - school application with fees, background check, and disclosure. phase 2 - you will need to create a lesson plan based on the current standardized driver’s education curriculum and submit it for review. phase 3 - secure location, vehicle(s), insurance requirements, surety bond, occupational license (if required), and any other business-related items. phase 4 - third party road skills test route, required training, and additional instructors/examiners applications. how do i submit an application to open a driving school? currently, all applications must be mailed to: office of motor vehicles attn: training certification unit p.o. box 64886 baton rouge, la 70896-4886 how much are the fees to open a driving school? please click here to view the cost breakdown associated with opening a driving school. what is a lesson plan? a lesson plan is a detailed description of the course of instruction for a lesson. they are based on the subject matter, teaching preference, and the needs of the students. for driver’s education purposes, the lesson plan should be geared towards teaching the students the knowledge needed to be a safe and courteous driver in both the classroom setting and the behind-the-wheel. your lesson plan should tell how you will teach the material, not that you have the information to teach. a lesson plan has many different looks. some are strictly through lectures, which are narratives. some are more visual, such as powerpoint presentations. today’s youth tend to be more visual learners, so a powerpoint presentation with links to videos and other visual elements may be more appropriate. this is not to say you cannot have lectures, but the average student in this day and age tends to respond better to visual stimuli than just verbal ones. with that being said, a powerpoint lesson plan is preferred and it should be sent via email or on a thumb drive. the average lesson plan is between 250 and 400 slides long. as a driving school applicant/owner, when do i need to find a location/car? this is part of phase 3. this is done once you have completed all phase 1 and 2 items and have received instructions to begin phase 3. click here to view the checklist. when can i start driving students at my new school? you may begin driving students after you have been fully licensed by the training and certification unit. how much does a driver s education class cost? the cost of driver’s education varies by school and location. you will need to contact the individual schools for price details. click here to view a list of the schools and view their contact information. where can i find the louisiana driver s guide? you can view the class d e louisiana driver's guide by clicking here. how do i start a defensive driving course? for defensive driving information, click here and go to section 2901. what do i do if i m no longer interested in opening a driving school? if at any time during the process of opening a driving school, you decide it is not for you, please email ladrivingschools@dps.la.gov to inform the training and certification unit of this decision. all fees submitted to the state are non-refundable. what are the requirements to open a driving school? to become a driving school owner, the applicant must: be a citizen of the united states or be lawfully present in the united states, and be a resident of the state of louisiana; be at least 21 years of age and have at least 5 years of unrestricted driving experience; hold at least a valid class “e” louisiana driver’s license; have earned at least a high school diploma or ged; not have had driving privileges suspended/disqualified for a dui/dwi within the last 10 years; possess any required occupational license and business license; within the last three years, not have any of the convictions listed below: three or more moving violations on the driving record; driving under suspension; two or more citations for seatbelt violations; two or more citations for following too closely; one or more citations for child restraint violations; three or more exceeding the posted speed limit; one or more citations for texting while driving; two or more citations for driving without insurance or security within three years; or, two or more citations for reckless or careless operation or careless driving; not have three or more insurance cancellations within the last 12 months on his driving record; not have been convicted of any offenses related to the operation of a driving school or other business regulated by dps; not a current or previous owner of a driving school or any other business regulated by dps whose license or contract has been revoked; not have been convicted of a crime involving violence, dishonesty, deceit, indecency or an offense involving moral turpitude, and have not been convicted of any misdemeanor or felony offenses involving controlled dangerous substance(s) or driving while intoxicated within the last 10 years; not be convicted of any crime enumerated in r.s. 15:587.1(c) (the child protection act), r.s. 15:587.1 et seq. has not provided false information with the application or falsified or withheld documents or information from representatives of dps how do i get a driver s license in louisiana? for first-time driver's license information, click here . what is a temporary instructional permit (tip) and how do i get one? for tip card information, click here . do i have to take driver s education? to determine if you need driver’s education, click here to meet douxwe! where can i file a complaint against a driving school? to file a complaint, you may email the office of motor vehicles, training and certification unit at ladrivingschools@dps.la.gov . for the complaint form, click here . how do i open a commercial driver s license school? click here for information about opening a comercial driver's license (cdl) school. how do i become a third-party tester for commercial driver s licenses? click here for more information on how to become a cdl third-party tester. where can i find a list of driving schools? a complete list of louisiana driving schools can be found by clicking here . where can i find a driving school checklist or form? click here to view all checklists and forms for existing driving schools. when are my six-month reports due? the third-party road skills test report is due by january 10th and july 10th of each year. what do i need to get a new instructor licensed? click here to view the new instructor checklist. how do i get my vehicle approved to use for a driving school? click here to view the form to add or delete a vehicle. how long are driver’s education certificates of completion valid? driver’s education certificates of completion are good for five years from the issue date. how long is my road skills test certificate valid? the road skills test certificate is good for five years from the issue date. commercial (class a, b c) do i have a “grace” period once my cdl license has expired? a $15 delinquent fee assessed on any license expired for more than 10 days. if you let your license expire, you are subject to a traffic citation. citations issued for driving without valid cdl privileges is considered a serious offense and mandates a disqualification of your cdl privileges as well as reinstatement fees. how can i submit my cdl medical examiner certificate to the omv? you can send it by email, fax, or regular mail: email - omv_cdl_medical@dps.la.gov fax - 225-925-3901 mail - office of motor vehicles p. o. box 64886 baton rouge, la 70896. what are the different classes of cdl? there are 3 basic classes of cdl: combination vehicles (class a) – any combination of vehicles with a gross combination weight rating (gcwr) of 26,001 pounds or more, provided the gvwr of the vehicle(s) being towed is in excess of 10,000. note: if the vehicle being towed has a gvwr of 10,001 lbs. or more, class a is required. however, you will be required to test in a combination that has a gvwr of 26,001 lbs. or more. heavy straight vehicles (class b) – any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more or any such vehicle towing a trailer/vehicle not in excess of 10,000 pounds. small vehicles (class c) - any single vehicle or combination of vehicles (that meets neither the definition of class a or class b) but that is either designed to transport 16 or more passengers including the driver or is used in the transportation of hazardous materials in amounts required to be placarded. for more information, see section i, policy 1.00 classes of license and age requirements. what do i need to transfer a valid cdl from another state to louisiana? your valid out-of-state photo cdl or a letter of clearance or a copy of your official driving record. in addition to number 1, you must meet the id requirements ( section i, policy 6.00 ). original documents only. photocopies not accepted. provide proof of social security number (card or letter from ssa). submit a copy of your completed medical examiner’s certificate . proof of insurance on any personal vehicles you have registered in louisiana. proof of residency if you have and wish to retain your hazardous materials endorsement (x or h), you will be required to successfully complete the written test. you will be required to submit to a vision exam at the omv office. appropriate fee. ( section i, policy 2.00 fees and duration of license ) how do i know if i have a medically disqualifying condition? the federal motor carrier safety administration provides in-depth information about the physical requirements for commercial drivers. how do i update my dot record? go to: https://motus.dot.gov/ what happens if i don’t register under ucr? vehicles operated in interstate commerce may be stopped by law enforcement. enforcement action including vehicle impoundment, driver arrest, and citation including fines. louisiana will also deny irp registration for any vehicles associated with the dot number. do i need a dot number? as a prism state, louisiana requires all holders of apportioned plates to be associated with a u.s. dot number. the bar code on each cab card contains the u.s. dot number associated with either the motor carrier responsible for safety or the registrant. owner-operators without operating authority, who purchase their own plates, need a registrant u.s. dot number. a registrant u.s. dot number is for vehicle registration purposes only and does not provide the owner/operator with any type of operating authority. the registrant u.s. dot number should not, under any circumstances, be displayed on the vehicle. an owner-operator (lessor) must provide the u.s. dot number for the motor carrier (lessee), who is responsible for the safety information. if the motor carrier responsible for safety has filed updated mcs-150 data within the prescribed twelve-month period, only the u.s. dot number and fein of the motor carrier must be provided. otherwise, a current copy of the mcs-150 for the owner-operator and motor carrier must be filed. motor carriers who have not obtained a u.s. dot number must complete mcs-150 and mcs-150a forms to apply for a u.s. dot number. the irp unit will assist carriers in obtaining us dot numbers or carriers may contact the u. s. department of transportation for assistance. a motor carrier is required to have a u.s. dot number prior to operation. how do i obtain a u.s. dot number? new applicants must register for a dot number online at https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/registration . if any technical issues occur please call the fmcsa support telephone number at 1-800-832-5660 who is required to file a mcs-150b? the fmcsa has established a safety permit program (hm safety permit). effective january 1, 2005, motor carriers transporting certain hazardous materials in interstate, intrastate, and foreign commerce will be required to have the permit. the permit program will require every motor carrier, including intrastate carriers, transporting certain hazardous materials to complete form mcs-150b in lieu of form mcs-150. the mcs-150b form is available through the fmcsa website . which omv offices can process an irp transaction? all applications regarding irp can be processed in select omv offices across the state: alexandria baton rouge houma lafayette lake charles mandeville monroe shreveport what are the renewal dates for irp plates? irp accounts are created under staggered registration. ex: irp account opened in august 2026 will expire in july 2027. june is not an expiration month. all accounts opened in july will expire in may. what methods of payment are accepted by irp? all payments must be submitted in the form of certified funds (i.e. cash, money order, cashier's check, certified check, commcheck). how do i apply for a duplicate cdl license? schedule an appointment at a cdl issuing office and arrive with your medical card, proof of insurance on your personal vehicles, proof of residency , and cash, credit card/debit card, or money order. cost of duplicate - $5.00 plus any applicable parish fee not to exceed $6. how much does a cdl cost? the costs may vary slightly. a cdl physical is required (fee set by the medical examiner). third party skills test is $100 (if you provide the vehicle). note: cost for rental of a vehicle, discretion of the tester/examiner. license fee - $61.50 ($76.50 if you reside in orleans parish) + $15.00 application fee. additional endorsements - $7.50 each, except for motorcycle which is $12.00. applicable parish fee - not to exceed $8.00. who can i call or where can i submit questions for specific/particular cdl information? a: you may call 225-925-6146 or you may contact us via the online form at https://dpsweb.dps.louisiana.gov/omvcontactus.nsf what other websites can i visit to obtain more cdl related information? us department of transportation: http:www.dot.gov federal motor carrier safety administration: http://www.fmcsa.dot.gov hazardous materials: http://hazmat.dot.gov louisiana department of transportation: https://www.dotd.la.gov/ vehicles when i get my special/personalized plate, what do i do with my old license plate? your old plate has been cancelled. it does not have to be turned in, but you should destroy it. how do i transfer a vehicle from a deceased owner? to have the vehicle transferred to a new owner, you must first determine how the estate has been settled by the heirs. if a succession was opened through the courts, you must submit a certified copy of the final judgment of possession, showing the disposition of the vehicle. if the heirs filed a small succession through the department of revenue, you must submit the validated "affidavit of small succession", along with the descriptive list of property, which must include a description of the vehicle in question. if the requirements for opening a succession or the filing of a small succession cannot be met, it will be necessary for the heirs to complete an "affidavit of heirship." this form must be accompanied by a photostatic copy of the death certificate. if the decedent died testate (executed a will), a copy of the will or a notarized statement of its contents relevant to vehicles must be submitted. the notarized statement must be made and signed by the one in possession of the original will. in addition to these requirements, the following documents may be necessary: vehicle application form (dpsmv1799) for title properly executed by the recipient of the vehicle. certificate of title, if available. if the issue date of the title is january 1, 1990 or later, the assignment of the title must be completed by one of the heirs and the recipient of the vehicle and notarized. current certificate of registration, if available. notarized bill of sale or act of donation from all heirs to the recipient of the vehicle. federal odometer disclosure statement completed by the buyer and seller on vehicles within twenty model years. if the decedent's title reflected a lien, you must submit a satisfaction of lien written on the lienholder's company letterhead. the letter must include name, address, and telephone number of the lienholder. if a lien is to be recorded in the new owner's name, you must submit a completed ucc-1 or security agreement showing a full description of the vehicle. when a ucc instrument is submitted to record a lien, include a $15.00 recordation fee. when any other lien instrument is submitted to record a lien, include a $10.00 recordation fee. if the vehicle is being sold, sales tax is due based on the selling price of the vehicle. the percentage of sales tax due is determined by applicant's domicile. if an heir is an out-of-state resident and the state of residence will not accept the louisiana affidavit of heirship, written documentation from that state indicating that the louisiana heirship form will not be accepted must be submitted with the file. all files with a date of sale on or after august 1, 2012, must include a copy of the vehicle owner's current and valid photo identification. the photo identification provided should be a driver's license or identification card issued by this state, another state, or by the united states military. how do i apply for a salvage title? when, as a result of an insurance settlement, a motor vehicle is declared to be a total loss, the insurance company, its authorized agent or the vehicle owner must apply for a salvage title within thirty (30) days from the settlement of the property damage claim. a salvage title is issued in the name of the insurance company, its authorized agent or vehicle owner who may dismantle, sell, rebuild or restore the salvaged vehicle. the following items must be submitted before a salvage title can be issued: a completed vehicle application form (dpsmv1799) with the words "salvage title" written across the face of the application. the properly assigned title or manufacturer’s statement of origin with the words "salvage title" written across the face of title or statement of origin. a copy of the proof of loss from the insurance company. a ucc-1 financing statement or security agreement to record lien (if applicable). a notarized authorization from the insurance company naming the agent and including a complete description of the vehicle (model year, make, body style and complete vehicle identification number of the vehicle), if the vehicle is being titled in the name of the insurance company’s authorized agent’s name. disclosure of salvage vehicle form. if a lien is to be recorded, you must submit a completed ucc-1 or security agreement showing a full description of the vehicle. when a ucc instrument is submitted to record a lien, include a $15.00 recordation fee. when any other lien instrument is submitted to record a lien, include a $10.00 recordation fee. how do i register a vehicle purchased out-of-state? a vehicle application form (dpsmv1799 ) must be completed and signed by the applicant. the current certificate of title must be submitted with the assignment completed and notarized, if applicable. if a lien was recorded, it must be properly released. vehicles less than twenty years old must have the federal odometer disclosure completed on the title, otherwise, a separate odometer statement must be submitted. the notarized bill of sale or invoice with the full description of the vehicle must be submitted if the title assignment does not reflect the date of sale, selling price, and buyer/seller signatures. original or a copy of the financing statement or security agreement must be included if a lien is to be recorded. all files with a date of sale on or after august 1, 2012, must include a copy of the vehicle owner's current and valid photo identification. the photo identification provided should be a driver's license or identification card issued by this state, another state, or by the united states military. proof of liability insurance coverage is required, unless the vehicle was purchased from a dealer. the following additional documents will be required, along with the above, when the vehicle was purchased from an individual out of state. if neither the bill of sale nor the assignment of title is notarized out of state, a notarized affidavit is required from the out of state registered owner attesting to the fact that they are not a resident of louisiana, or a copy of the seller's out-of-state driver's license (front and back) must be submitted. if the documentation submitted was notarized in louisiana, and no residency documents are included in the file, it can then be assumed that the registered owner shown on the out-of-state title has become a resident of louisiana and must pay use tax. a "double transfer" will then be processed with tax collected on both transactions. all documents and fees must be submitted simultaneously to the local office of motor vehicles or mailed to headquarters how do i apply for a special license plate? visit https://expresslane.dps.louisiana.gov/specialplatespublic/specialplates1.aspx how do i get a personalized plate? visit https://expresslane.dps.louisiana.gov/plate/plate.aspx where do i get a vehicle application form and how do i fill it out? the office of motor vehicles requires the completion of the vehicle application (dpsmv1799) to process vehicle title and/or registration transactions. click here to view the office of motor vehicles' policy regarding completion of vehicle application. how do i apply for a duplicate title? a duplicate title can be issued when the original has been mutilated, lost, destroyed, or never received. click here to review the office of motor vehicles' policy regarding duplicate titles. dept of public safety & corrections public safety services office of motor vehicles phone: (225) 925-6146 mailing address: office of motor vehicles p.o. box 64886 baton rouge, la 70896 physical address: office of motor vehicles 7979 independence blvd. baton rouge, la 70806 contact us terms of use title vi notice rules strategic plan frequently asked questions dps employees providers languages: español | français | tiếng việt | other