amendments and corrections - florida department of health skip to content county health departments alachua county baker county bay county bradford county brevard county broward county calhoun county charlotte county citrus county clay county collier county columbia county desoto county dixie county duval county escambia county flagler county franklin county gadsden county gilchrist county glades county gulf county hamilton county hardee county hendry county hernando county highlands county hillsborough county holmes county indian river county jackson county jefferson county lafayette county lake county lee county leon county levy county liberty county madison county manatee county marion county martin county miami-dade county monroe county nassau county okaloosa county okeechobee county orange county osceola county palm beach county pasco county pinellas county polk county putnam county santa rosa county sarasota county seminole county st. johns county st. lucie county sumter county suwannee county taylor county union county volusia county wakulla county walton county washington county { $refs.countysearch.focus(); const selected = $el.parentelement.queryselector('.selected'); if (selected) { selected.scrollintoview({ block: 'center' }); } }); }"> county health departments alachua county baker county bay county bradford county brevard county broward county calhoun county charlotte county citrus county clay county collier county columbia county desoto county dixie county duval county escambia county flagler county franklin county gadsden county gilchrist county glades county gulf county hamilton county hardee county hendry county hernando county highlands county hillsborough county holmes county indian river county jackson county jefferson county lafayette county lake county lee county leon county levy county liberty county madison county manatee county marion county martin county miami-dade county monroe county nassau county okaloosa county okeechobee county orange county osceola county palm beach county pasco county pinellas county polk county putnam county santa rosa county sarasota county seminole county st. johns county st. lucie county sumter county suwannee county taylor county union county volusia county wakulla county walton county washington county news events meetings grants funding boards councils visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on twitter visit us on youtube individuals families communities environment certificates records licensing regulation statistics data diseases conditions menu home / certificates records / amendments and corrections amendments and corrections birth amendments the florida department of health’s bureau of vital statistics has the authority to correct errors or omissions on a birth record. depending on the type of correction and the age of the registrant, documentary evidence may be required to support the correction. if the correction is to the name of a minor child, the signatures of both parents, if listed on the original birth record, are required. forms dh660 instructions for amending a certificate of birth dh430 affidavit of amendment of certificate of live birth dh429 application for amendment to florida birth record dh429s application for amendment to florida birth record (spanish) fee florida law requires a non-refundable amendment processing fee of $20, which includes one certification of the amended record. death amendments demographic amendments: depending on the type of correction, documentary evidence to support the requested correction may be required. forms dh670 instructions for correction of certificate of death dh524 application for amendment to florida death or fetal death record dh433 affidavit of amendment of certificate of death dh433a affidavit of amendment to a florida certificate of fetal death fee florida law requires a non-refundable amendment processing fee of $20 which includes one certification of the amended record. medical amendments to amend the medical certification or cause of death section on the death certificate requires the certifying physician or medical examiner to complete and file the notarized dh434a affidavit of amendment to medical certification of death . form dh524 application for amendment to florida death or fetal death record fees there is no amendment fee associated with a medical amendment; however, if a certification of the amended death record is desired, a fee of $5 for the first copy and $4 for each subsequent copy ordered at the same time is required. paternity acknowledgement a father’s name may be added to his child’s birth record only in the case where the mother was unmarried at the time of the child’s birth and no father is listed on the birth record. notarized signatures of both parents or two witnesses for each parent (may be the same witnesses) are required. if parents have married and they wish marital status to be amended to show married, a certified copy of the parents’ marriage record is also required. forms dh429 application for amendment to florida birth record dh429s application for amend to florida birth record (spanish) dh432 acknowledgment of paternity fee a non-refundable fee of $20, which includes one certification of the record, is required by florida law. legal change of name if you have had a legal name change in a florida court, a report of legal change of name will be forwarded to our office by the clerk of the court, usually within 30 days. the birth record will be amended by attaching the change of name report to the original birth record. if you were born in another state, the clerk of court will provide you with a copy of the name change. you should contact your state of birth regarding their procedures in this matter. if you had your name legally changed in another state, a certified copy of the legal name change court order must be submitted with the application for amendment, valid photo identification and fee. forms dh429 application for amendment to florida birth record dh429s application for amendment to florida birth record (spanish) dh 427 report of legal name change fee a non-refundable fee of $20 is required for amending the record and includes one certification of the amended record. adoption procedures if an adoption has occurred, the clerk of the court will forward to our office a report of the adoption within 30 days of the order. based on this document, a new birth record will be filed for the child. forms dh429 application for amendment to florida birth record dh429s application for amendment to florida birth record dh527 certified statement of final decree of adoption if adopted in florida but born in another state, the report of adoption received from the clerk of the court will be forwarded to the child’s state of birth. contact the bureau of vital statistics in the child’s state of birth regarding their requirements in this matter. in matters of parental rights, the dh 5075 form may be needed. dh5075 petition for termination of parental rights fee a non-refundable fee of $20 is required for amending the record and includes one certification of the amended record. if the required fee does not accompany the report of the adoption, the record will be amended and either the parent or attorney will be notified in writing of the amendment and the fee requirement. release of original birth certificate complete application form dh726 and applicable notarized affidavit(s). must enclose a photocopy of driver’s license, state identification card, passport, or military identification card. adoption information forms dh726: adoptee under the age of 18 dh726: adoptee 18 years of age or older fee a fee of $14 is due for photocopy certification of the sealed birth record. foreign births the florida department of health’s bureau of vital statistics is able to file certificates of foreign birth for children born in foreign countries to non-us citizens, based on orders of adoption whose judgment occurs in florida. the court reports a foreign born adoption on the same form, dh527 certified statement of final decree of adoption , as used to report an adoption for a child born in florida. the certificate of foreign birth shows the adoptive name, the adoptive parents, and will show the true country of birth. the record also bears information regarding the court order, and has a disclaimer regarding the record not being proof of citizenship. certificates of foreign birth are not filed for canadian born children as by mutual agreement those orders are forwarded onto the vital statistics office in the province in which the child was born. forms dh1178 application for certificate of foreign birth dh527 certified statement of final decree of adoption fees the fee for filing a certificate of foreign birth is $20. a second copy of the record is $9, and any subsequent copies requested at the same time are $4 each. delayed birth procedures florida law allows for the filing of a delayed birth certificate when no birth certificate was filed within one year of the child’s birth. if the child is not yet one year old, the record may still be registered by contacting the county health department in the county of the child’s birth for assistance in registering the birth. if the child is over one year of age , the following information applies: if you have not yet had our records searched for your birth record and wish to do so, submit your request in writing along with the search fee of $9 to: bureau of vital statistics p.o. box 210 jacksonville, fl 32231-0042 if no record is found, you will be provided with a certified “not found” statement and instructions for filing a delayed birth certificate. forms forms for filing a delayed birth record are mailed on an individual basis and only after a result of a search of the florida department of health’s bureau of vital statistics’ birth records when it is found that no birth record is on file for the individual. dh726 application for a florida birth record dh726s application for a florida birth record (spanish) documentary evidence supporting the birth facts is required. the number of documents as well as the age of documents varies depending on the age of the applicant. such evidence must be in the form of original documents or notarized or certified copies and must show the child’s full name, age or date of birth, place of birth, and the date the original record was established. at least one document must also show the father’s name and the mother’s full maiden name. fee a non-refundable fee of $20 is required by florida law and will entitle you to one certification of the record, if filed. help us improve the florida department of health’s bureau of vital statistics is always looking for ways to improve our services. have you contacted or visited us? tell us about your experience! share your experience certificates records birth certificates toggle submenu for birth certificates commemorative birth certificates putative father registry death certificates toggle submenu for death certificates stillbirths fetal deaths nonviable birth divorce or annulment certificates marriage certificates toggle submenu for marriage certificates commemorative marriage certificates amendments and corrections apostille certificates electronic birth death registration toggle submenu for electronic birth death registration electronic reporting access request order certificates from vitalchek publications, forms, and applications service satisfaction survey vital statistics 904-359-6900 email us led by the state surgeon general, the mission of the florida department of health is to protect, promote, and improve the health of all people in florida through integrated state, county, and community efforts. about florida health about us leadership boards, councils, and committees careers with florida health contact us resources public records requests notice of public meeting, hearing, or workshop public notices patient rights and safety notice of privacy practices legal & site information accessibility accreditation disclaimer electronic communication privacy policy site map visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on twitter visit us on youtube copyright 2026. florida department of health. all rights reserved. visit us on facebook visit us on instagram visit us on twitter visit us on youtube close navigation drawer