section 5-c:10 fees for copies, verifications and amendments to vital records. title i the state and its government chapter 5-c vital records administration section 5-c:10 5-c:10 fees for copies, verifications and amendments to vital records. i. a town clerk or the registrar shall be paid in advance, by any person requesting any copy or verification as provided in rsa 5-c:9, the sum of $15 for making a search, which sum shall include payment for the issuance of such copy or verification, and $10 for each subsequent copy, provided that the fee to town clerks for examination of documents and issuance of a delayed birth certificate shall be $25. ii. the town clerk shall forward $8 of each search fee collected by the clerk under this section to the department of state for deposit in the vital records improvement fund established under rsa 5-c:15 and shall retain the remaining $7 as the clerk's fee for issuing such a copy. for subsequent copies issued at the same time, the town clerk shall forward $5 of the fee collected for each subsequent copy under this section to the department for deposit in the vital records improvement fund established under rsa 5-c:15 and shall retain the remaining $5 as the clerk's fee for issuing such a copy. the town clerk shall retain the $25 fee for a delayed birth certificate as the clerk's fee for examining documents and issuing the delayed birth certificate. fees collected by the registrar shall be forwarded to the state treasurer for deposit into the vital records improvement fund established under rsa 5-c:15. iii. any correction or amendment to a record of any birth, marriage, or death shall be made by the town clerk according to the procedures established in this chapter. the town clerk shall receive for amending or correcting any record the fee of $10 to be paid by the person making application for such an amendment or correction. the town clerk shall retain the fee collected under this paragraph for making such correction or amendment. such fee shall be waived if the error was made by the town clerk. source. 2005, 268:1. 2010, sp. sess., 1:69, eff. june 10, 2010. 2013, 144:109, eff. july 1, 2013.