new birth certificate for sex designation change vital records skip to content skip to navigation skip to footer english 廣東話 chuukese ʻōlelo hawaiʻi ilokano 日本語 한국어 国语 marshallese samoan español tagalog tongan ภาษาไทย tiếng việt visayan x to request language or accessibility for hdoh programs or public meetings, please contact the hdoh non-discrimination coordinator, at (808) 586-4400 or email: [email protected] . please allow sufficient time for hdoh to meet accommodation requests. 如欲針對在 hdoh 計劃或公開會議中提出語言或無障礙便利方面的要求，請聯絡 hdoh 非歧視協調員，致電 (808) 586-4400 或發送電子郵件至： [email protected] 。請為 hdoh 留出足夠的時間來滿足您的便利要求。 ren eom kopwe tungor fosun fonu ika atotongeni ren hdoh programs kena ika mwichen aramas meinisin kena, kose mochen kori ewe hdoh non-discrimination coordinator, non (808)586-4400 ika email: [email protected] . kose mochen mut ngenitamenon fansoun ren an hdoh epwe tori anenian tungor kena. no ke noi ‘ana i kōkua ma ka māhele ‘ōlelo a i ‘ole ka lawelawe kīnānā ‘ana no nā papa hana a ka hdoh a i ‘ole nā hālāwai no ka lehulehu, e kūkā me ka luna ho‘okae o ka hdoh ma ka helu (808) 586-4400 a i ‘ole e leka uila i ka [email protected] . e ‘ae aku i ka manawa lō‘ihi kūpono e ho‘oponopono ai ka hdoh i kāu noi. tapno agkiddaw ti lenggwahe wenno pannaka-access ti programa ti hdoh wenno pampubliko nga miting, pangaasim ta kontakem ti non-discrimination nga coordinator ti hdoh sadjay (808) 586-4400 wenno email: [email protected] . pangaasim ta ipaayam tihdoh ti undas a tiempo a mangasikaso dagiti kiddaw ti pagdagusan. hdohのプログラムまたはオープンな会議における言語やアクセシビリティのリクエストは、hdoh無差別コーディネーター（電話：(808) 586-4400、またはメール： [email protected] ）までご連絡ください。hdohがご要望にお応えできるよう、十分な時間をお取りください。 hdoh 프로그램 또는 공개 회의에 대한 언어 지원 또는 장애인 편의를 요청하시려면 hdoh 차별금지 조정관에게 (808) 5864400으로 전화하거나 이메일( [email protected] )로 연락해 주십시오. hdoh에서 요청된 편의 사항을 마련할 수 있도록 충분한 시간을 주시기 바랍니다. 如需申请针对 hdoh 计划或公开会议的语言或无障碍服务，请致电 (808) 586-4400，或发送电子邮件至： : [email protected] 联系 hdoh 非歧视协调员。请留出足够的时间，以便 hdoh 有充足的时间来满足便利安排请求。 ñan kajjitõk am maron bõk melele ikijen kajin ak lale melele ko ñan burokraam ko an hdoh ak kwelok ko aoleb armij remaron etal ñane, jouj im kebaak rikõlaajrak eo ej lale ejellok kalijeklok an hdoh, ilo (808) 586-4400 ñe ejab email: [email protected] . jouj im lelok ien ñan an hdoh kõtõbrak kajjitõk ko ikijen mennin jibañ. ina ia talosagaina le gagana po o le mauaina o polokalama o le hdoh po o fonotaga lautele, faamolemole faafesootai le taitai faamaopoopo o le hdoh e le faailogalanu, i le (808) 586-4400 po o le imeli: [email protected] . faamolemole ia faʻaavanoa se taimi talafeagai mo le hdoh e faataunuʻu ai ia talosaga. si desea solicitar servicios lingüísticos o accesibilidad para los programas o reuniones públicas del hdoh, contáctese con la coordinadora de actos de no discriminación del hdoh al (808) 586-4400 o por correo electrónico: [email protected] . le pedimos que nosconceda tiempo suficiente para que el hdoh pueda satisfacer sus solicitudes de ayuda. para humiling ng wika o pagiging magagamit para sa mga programa o mga pampublikong pagpupulong ng hdoh, pakikontak ang koordinador ng walang diskriminasyon ng hdoh, sa (808)586-4400 o mag-email sa: [email protected] . mangyaring bigyan ngsapat na oras ang hdoh para makatugon sa mga kahilingan sa akomodasyon. ke kole ʻa e lea fakafonua pe lava ʻo ngāue ʻaki ʻa e ngaahi polokalama hdoh pe ngaahi fakataha fakapuleʻangá, kātaki ʻo fetuʻutaki ki he kōʻotineita ʻikai-filifilimānako ʻa e hdoh, ʻi he (808) 586-4400 pe ʻīmeili: [email protected] . kātaki ʻo ʻoange ha taimi feʻunga maʻá e hdoh ke fakakakao ʻa e ngaahi kole ki he nofoʻangá. หากต้องการขอภาษาอื่นเพิ่มเติมหรือการเข้าถึงโปรแกรม hdoh หรือการประชุมสาธารณะ โปรดติดต่อผู้ประสานงานด้านการไม่เลือกปฏิบัติของ hdoh ที่หมายเลข (808) 586-4400 หรืออีเมล: [email protected] โปรดให้เวลาอย่างเพียงพอเพื่อให้ทาง hdoh สามารถตอบสนองต่อคาขอที่พ ักได้ để yêu cầu ngôn ngữ hoặc quyền tiếp cận các chương trình hdoh hoặc các cuộc họp công khai, vui lòng liên hệ với điều phối viên phụ trách về không phân biệt đối xử của hdoh theo số (808)586-4400 hoặc gửi email tới: [email protected] . vui lòng chohdoh đủ thời gian để đáp ứng các yêu cầu về biện pháp trợ giúp đặc biệt. aron mohangyo og pinulongan o access para sa mga programa sa hdoh o publikong mga miting, palihog kontaka ang hdoh non-discrimination coordinator, sa (808) 586-4400 o pag-email sa: [email protected] . palihog paghatag og igong panahon aron maatiman sa hdoh ang hangyo para sa akomodasyon. hawaii.gov government directory state of hawaii, department of health vital records ka ʻoihana olakino search this site search home about doh office of the director program directory mission statement strategic plan rules regulations neighbor island offices hawaii maui kauai family guidance centers news covid-19 news news releases olakino maikaʻi health topics employment contact us home » amendments » new birth certificate for sex designation change vital records navigation vital records home birth marriage certificates marriage/civil union licenses death certificates and letters of verification reciprocal beneficiary relationships apostilles genealogy requests amendments establish paternity late birth certificate new birth certificate for sex designation change section 338-17.7, hawaii revised statutes (hrs), as amended by act 226 (july 2015) establishes the documentation required when requesting the department of health to issue a new birth certificate with a sex designation change. how to request a new birth certificate with a sex designation change the requestor or “birth registrant” must be born in the state of hawaii and have a birth certificate filed with the hawaii department of health. the requestor must provide a notarized affidavit from a united states licensed physician attesting that: the physician has a bona fide physician-patient relationship with the birth registrant; the physician has treated and evaluated the birth registrant and has reviewed and evaluated the birth registrant’s medical history; the birth registrant has had appropriate clinical treatment for gender transition to the new gender and has completed the transition to the new gender; and the physician* has seen a current certified copy of the registrant’s birth certificate and the new gender does not align with the sex designation of the birth registrant’s birth certificate.** *per hawaii revised statutes (hrs), section 338-1, physician is defined; and hrs, section 453, part 1, doctor of naturopathy is not acceptable. **please provide a current certified copy of your birth certificate to your physician. here are the required forms that must be completed in order to establish a new birth certificate for sex designation change: application for amendment to birth record physician affidavit form for sex designation change cost : a fee of $3 is charged for each amendment of an item on a given certificate. once completed, the original notarized completed forms and fees can be returned as follows: mail to: deliver in person to: department of health – office of health status monitoring, registration/corrections section p.o. box 3378 honolulu, hawaii 96801-3378 department of health – office of health status monitoring registration/corrections section 1250 punchbowl street, room 105 honolulu, hawaii 96813 important notes: a new certificate of birth established under section 338-17.7, hrs, is substituted for the original certificate of birth. the original certificate and evidence supporting its preparation will be sealed and filed and may only be opened by an order of a court of record or by request of the birth registrant. if the requestor is seeking a name change to be reflected in the new certificate of birth, the requestor shall submit appropriate documentation evidencing a legal name change was completed prior to the establishment of the new birth certificate. if a legal name change is completed subsequent to the establishment of a new birth certificate, the new birth certificate will have to be amended separately in accordance with name change procedures. https://health.hawaii.gov/vitalrecords/amendments/ amendments an original entry on a birth, death, or marriage certificate may be amended by either the private request of an individual or an order of a court of competent jurisdiction. an amendment includes changes, corrections, additions, deletions, or substitutions. how to apply for an amendment an amendment may be made upon application, but only with the submission of required documentary evidence in support of the amendment. the evidentiary requirements can differ, depending on whether the amendment is court-ordered or, if requested by an individual, whether it materially affects the validity and integrity of the record. once an amendment of an item is made, that item will not be amended again without a court order or, if a person’s name is to be changed, without a change of name decree. to amend a certificate of birth , follow the special instructions click here . to apply for a new birth certificate for a sex designation change , follow the special instructions click here . to obtain more information about a specific amendment or speak with a member of our correction staff, call (808) 586-4541 or send a written letter of inquiry to: state department of health office of health status monitoring corrections section p.o. box 3378 honolulu, hi 96801 counter service is available monday to friday (excluding holidays) from 7:45 a.m. to 2:30 p.m by appointments or referrals, please call (808) 586-4541. to schedule an appointment costs in most cases, a fee of $3.00 is charged for each request for the amendment of an item or group of items on a given certificate. new marriage certificate for gender designation change section 572, hawaii revised statutes (hrs), as amended by act 179 establishes the documentation required when requesting the department of health to issue a new marriage certificate with a gender designation change and if applicable, legal name change. how to request a new marriage certificate with a gender designation change the requestor or “applicant” must have a marriage certificate filed with the hawaii department of health. the applicant must provide the following: any one of the following documents: applicant’s new certificate of birth reflecting the applicant’s change of sex identifier. a government-issued identification document reflecting the applicant’s change of sex identifier, including any court-ordered gender change done through courts in the united states, district of columbia, or any foreign court. (if court order is in a foreign language, a certified (notarized) translated version needs to accompany it). an affidavit attesting, under penalty of perjury, that the request for a change of the designation of the applicant as “bride”, “groom”, “partner”, or “spouse” is to confirm the applicant’s gender identifier and is not made for any fraudulent purpose. and notarized letter of affidavit of the non-applicant spouse attesting the following verbatim: “i, (non-applicant spouse’s full name), stipulate to an issuance of a new certificate of marriage for myself that reflects my spouse’s legal gender, and, if applicable, name.” this letter/form can be downloaded here non-applicant spouse s affidavit . you may send these documents and a short cover letter with your contact info to the following address: state dept. of health vital records – attn: corrections section po box 3378 honolulu, hawaii 96801 if you would like to schedule an in-person appointment at our honolulu office or speak with staff, please contact us at: phone number: 808-586-4541 email: [email protected] upon receipt of the documents listed in a and b, we will review, prepare, and send to you the department of health’s affidavit and application for correction of vital record form. we will also provide you with instructions on paying for the amendment fee ($3.00 usd) and ordering new certified copies of the marriage certificate. a sample of the form is provided in the marriage affidavit for gender marker and legal name change sample . this form can either be notarized or signed at the honolulu department of health or with any deputy local registrar at their respective district health offices. for neighbor islands, contact your local district health office. hawaii island maui county (maui, lanai, molokai) kauai: (808) 241-3498 important notes: if the requestor is seeking a name change to be reflected in the new certificate of marriage, the requestor shall also submit appropriate documentation evidencing a legal name change with their request for gender designation change. if for any reason the requestor would not like to list their previous full name on the department of health’s affidavit and application for correction of vital record form, please let us know in writing when you submit your request and required documents. a new certificate of marriage established under act 179, is substituted for the original certificate of marriage. the original certificate and evidence supporting its preparation will be sealed and filed and may only be opened by an order of a court of record or by request of the registrant. about us program directory info line 808-586-4400 policies terms of use accessibility privacy policy contact e-mail copyright 2026, state of hawaii. all rights reserved.