vital records orders | state of alaska | department of health alert. due to a high volume of requests, vital records processing times are currently 1 – 2 months. if you have questions, please email us at doh.havrs.info@alaska.gov . please beware of fraudulent websites. alaska vital records only partners with vitalchek.com for online orders. orders placed through govmore cannot be filled. close myalaska departments state of alaska department of health open navigation search site : clear home services background check program child care child health development chronic diseases denali kidcare disability care division of public assistance (dpa) services employment assistance environmental health financial assistance health care coverage health care facilities infectious diseases injury prevention apply for medicaid mental health nutrition senior care substance use treatment supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap) vital records certificates women's health for providers professionals for providers clinicians for health care facilities for school professionals for businesses centralized reporting: submit a critical incident report certificates licensing laboratory test directory medicaid provider assistance research statistics vactrak immunization information system alaska state public health laboratories (asphl) background check program grants contracts divisions office of the commissioner behavioral health finance and management services health care services public assistance public health senior and disabilities services advisory board on alcoholism and drug abuse (abada) alaska commission on aging alaska mental health board governor's council on disabilities and special education statewide suicide prevention council news help website help department contacts got a call or text about a health survey? adult protective services (aps) report of harm search search site : home services background check program child care child health development chronic diseases denali kidcare disability care division of public assistance (dpa) services employment assistance environmental health financial assistance health care coverage health care facilities infectious diseases injury prevention apply for medicaid mental health nutrition senior care substance use treatment supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap) vital records certificates women's health for providers professionals for providers clinicians for health care facilities for school professionals for businesses centralized reporting: submit a critical incident report certificates licensing laboratory test directory medicaid provider assistance research statistics vactrak immunization information system alaska state public health laboratories (asphl) background check program grants contracts divisions office of the commissioner behavioral health finance and management services health care services public assistance public health senior and disabilities services advisory board on alcoholism and drug abuse (abada) alaska commission on aging alaska mental health board governor's council on disabilities and special education statewide suicide prevention council news help website help department contacts got a call or text about a health survey? adult protective services (aps) report of harm myalaska departments home services vital records orders vital records orders official, heirloom and corrected copies of vital records certificates are available for purchase current section overview order copies of important records like births, deaths, marriages, and divorces. you can also request corrections to existing records. who can order vital records? vital records orders can be submitted by: people listed on a vital record or their authorized representatives can order copies of their vital records and official certificates anyone can order copies of historical records, however all vital records are strictly confidential until they are released as public records alaska's birth records become public after 100 years and records for all other events (like deaths, marriages, and divorces) become public after 50 years only records for births, deaths, marriages, and divorces that happened in alaska can be ordered through us. if you need records from another state, please visit the national center for health statistics website . how to order vital records vital records orders can be: submitted in person at our offices (see office locations, below) placed online via vitalchek sent by fax or mail by downloading our forms many companies charge customers high fees to “process” or “help apply” for certificates issued from the health analytics and vital records section. avoid unnecessary costs by ordering your certificates using the downloadable forms on this page or complete your purchase online through our authorized vendor, vitalchek. certified copies of vital records birth certificate request form death certificate request form marriage certificate request form marriage license application divorce certificate request form office locations full screen close close for in-person service, please visit the health analytics and vital records offices in anchorage or juneau. frequently asked questions marriage what is the difference between a marriage license and a marriage certificate? view a marriage license legally allows you to get married. you must get a license from the state of alaska before you can be married. a marriage is not valid unless it is solemnized, which means that a marriage ceremony is performed. there is no common law marriage in alaska. after the marriage ceremony, the person who performed the ceremony or the couple must return the completed marriage license to health analytics and vital records. this must be done within seven days after the ceremony. a marriage certificate is the legal proof that you are married. you may apply for a marriage certificate after the marriage license has been returned to health analytics and vital records and the marriage has been officially registered. how do i obtain a marriage license? view complete a marriage license application and submit it to alaska vital records in juneau, anchorage, or any alaska court. detailed instructions for obtaining a marriage license and eligibility requirements are on the marriage license application and on our website . how do i obtain a marriage certificate? view visit vitalchek.com to order certificates securely online or follow the instructions on our marriage certificate request form and submit your order by mail, fax, or in person at our anchorage or juneau offices. please note: alaska vital records does not work with any third-party vendors except for vitalchek.com . other third-party vendors sell certificates and may charge customers high fees to “process” or “help apply” for certificates from alaska vital records. these companies may or may not be fraudulent and we cannot guarantee that we will receive requests that are made through these companies. how do i obtain a one-day marriage commissioner appointment? view marriage commissioner appointments are issued through the alaska court system. under alaska statute 25.05.261(a)(2), anyone who is 18 years or older can perform a marriage ceremony, including a friend or relative, if they first obtain a marriage commissioner appointment from an alaskan court as authorized by as 25.05.081. the person does not need to be a resident of alaska or the united states in order to perform the ceremony. procedures vary by judicial district. there is no online application form. please visit the alaska court system website for more information. i just got married, how do i change my name? view there is no provision on an alaska marriage license to specify your married name on your marriage certificate. if you want to change your name after marriage, request a certified copy of your marriage certificate from alaska vital records. the certificate can be used as proof that you are eligible to change your name, and is accepted by the dmv, social security administration, passport agencies, banking institutions, insurance, retirement plans, and other organizations. how do i request a change to my marriage certificate? view to request a change or correction to a marriage certificate, please email the special services unit at bvsspecialservices@alaska.gov with your mailing address, and they will provide you with the necessary forms and instructions. please note that a correction fee may be required. what if i am getting married outside of alaska? view please file for a marriage license in the state / country in which the ceremony will take place. your marriage certificate will also come from the same state / country. i have an additional question, who do i email? view please check this information about marriage license, ceremony, and certificate document from the alaska court system to see if they have answered your question. if you still have a question, email the records processing unit at bvsoffice@alaska.gov . please allow us 3 to 5 business days to respond. birth how can i order a birth certificate? view visit vitalchek.com to order certificates quickly and securely online or follow the instructions on our birth certificate application and submit your order by mail or fax or in person at our anchorage or juneau offices. please note: alaska vital records does not work with any third-party vendors except for vitalchek.com . other third-party vendors sell certificates and may charge customers high fees to “process” or “help apply” for certificates from alaska vital records. these companies may or may not be fraudulent and we cannot guarantee that we will receive requests that are made through these companies. who is eligible to order a birth certificate? view parent(s) listed on the current certificate child listed on the certificate (if 14 years or older) along with current school id legal guardian with certified guardianship papers third-party requests must have notarized letter of consent for the release of information from the certificate holder or legal guardian attorneys government agencies must have a letter on their letterhead stating who they represent and why the record is needed. supporting certified or notarized documentation must be provided access to birth records becomes public 100 years after the event how long does it take to process a request for a birth certificate? view processing times vary depending on staff capacity at vital records. expect at least 2 – 3 weeks for requests made through vitalchek.com and 2 – 3 months for requests made through mail or fax. requests cannot be filled until the record has been registered, which may take up to 2 months after the birth has occurred. please do not contact our office unless your request has been pending for longer than the times listed above. does my application have an expiration date? view yes. if you receive a letter from us requesting additional documents and/or information, your application will expire 180 days from the date of the letter if you do not respond. once expired, your application will be closed for non-response, and all documents and/or payments must be resubmitted as a new application. how do i request a change or correction to my birth certificate or my child s birth certificate? view changes and corrections are processed by our special services unit. please email them at bvsspecialservices@alaska.gov and they will provide you with the necessary forms and instructions. how do i add a parent to a birth certificate? view the easiest way to add a parent to a birth certificate is via the voluntary affidavit of paternity (ap). please email the special services unit at bvsspecialservices@alaska.gov with your mailing address, and they will provide you with the necessary forms and instructions. a parent can also be added to the birth certificate by a state court or by child support services. please contact your local courthouse or the child support agency directly for further instructions i have an additional question, who do i email? view to inquire about certified copies of birth, death, marriage, or divorce certificates, email the records processing unit at bvsoffice@alaska.gov . please allow us 3 – 5 business days to respond. where can i get a stillbirth certificate? view fill out a copy of the alaska certificate of birth resulting in stillbirth request form. death how can i order a death certificate? view visit vitalchek.com to order certificates quickly and securely online or follow the instructions on our death certificate application and submit your order by mail or fax or in person at our anchorage or juneau offices. please note: alaska vital records does not work with any third-party vendors except for vitalchek.com . other third-party vendors sell certificates and may charge customers high fees to “process” or “help apply” for certificates from alaska vital records. these companies may or may not be fraudulent and we cannot guarantee that we will receive requests that are made through these companies. who is eligible to order a death certificate? view spouse listed on the certificate. provide a copy of your marriage certificate if you were not married in alaska. parent(s) listed on the death certificate. provide a copy of the decedent's birth certificate listing the same parent(s) if the decedent was not born in alaska. child(ren) of decedent. provide a copy of the child’s birth certificate with the decedent listed as a parent if the child was not born in alaska. sibling of decedent. provide a copy of the sibling’s birth certificate with at least one parent in common to the decedent if the sibling was not born in alaska. office of public advocacy with certified delegated power of conservatorship/guardianship papers. attorneys government agencies must have a letter on their letterhead stating who they represent and why the record is needed. supporting original certified or notarized documentation must be provided. how long does it take to process a request for a death certificate? view processing times vary depending on staff capacity at vital records. expect at least 2 – 3 weeks for requests made through vitalchek.com and 2 – 3 months for requests made through mail or fax. requests cannot be filled until the record has been registered, which may take up to 3 months after the death has occurred. please do not contact our office unless your request has been pending for longer than the times listed above. does my application have an expiration date? view yes. if you receive a letter from us requesting additional documents and/or information, your application will expire 180 days from the date of the letter if you do not respond. once expired, your application will be closed for non-response, and all documents and/or payments must be resubmitted as a new application. how do i request a change to a death certificate? view changes and corrections are processed by our special services unit. please email them at bvsspecialservices@alaska.gov and they will provide you with the necessary forms and instructions. i have an additional question, who do i email? view to inquire about certified copies of birth, death, marriage, or divorce certificates, email the records processing unit at bvsoffice@alaska.gov bvsoffice@alaska.gov. please allow us 3 – 5 business days to respond. divorce what is the difference between a divorce record, a divorce decree, and a divorce certificate? view divorce records are generally in two parts: divorce records and divorce decrees and are available through the alaska court system only. divorce certificates are available through alaska vital records divorce record: a divorce record is all of the pages filed in a divorce. in some divorce settlements the records can be several pages long. divorce decree: a divorce decree is a ruling that summarizes the rights and responsibilities of the divorced parties. it's a document that states the basic information regarding the divorce, case number, parties, date of divorce, terms the parties have agreed upon. the decree is usually only a few pages long and it’s signed and dated by the judge. the divorce decree is only available through the court. divorce certificate: is a one-page certified document outlining who is divorced, when, and where the divorce took place. a divorce certificate is available only through alaska vital records. who is eligible to obtain a divorce certificate? view access to divorce records filed at alaska vital records is restricted for 50 years after the date of the event. during this time, they can only be issued to the persons named on the certificate, their legal representatives, and persons who can prove they are legally entitled. when ordering a divorce certificate, you must state your relationship to the person named on the certificate or your reason for needing the record. how do i obtain a divorce certificate? view visit vitalchek.com to order certificates quickly and securely online or follow the instructions on our divorce certificate application and submit your order by mail, fax, or in person at our anchorage or juneau offices. please note: alaska vital records does not work with any third-party vendors except for vitalchek.com . other third-party vendors sell certificates and may charge customers high fees to “process” or “help apply” for certificates from alaska vital records. these companies may or may not be fraudulent and we cannot guarantee that we will receive requests that are made through these companies. why isn t my divorce on file at alaska vital records? view you must file a vs-401 form with the alaska court system in order to have your divorce registered with alaska vital records. these forms are available at all alaska court system locations . after the form has been submitted by the court, divorces may take up to three months to be registered by alaska vital records. i have an additional question, who do i email? view if you still have a question about ordering a divorce certificate, email the records processing unit at bvsoffice@alaska.gov . if you have a question about a divorce certificate that it is not registered with the alaska vital records, email the registration unit at bvsregistration@alaska.gov . please allow us 3 to 5 business days to respond. adoptions, corrections, and affidavits of paternity how do i request a change to a birth, death, marriage, or divorce record? view changes and corrections are processed by our special services unit. please email them at bvsspecialservices@alaska.gov and they will provide you with the necessary forms and instructions. bvsspecialservices@alaska.gov how do i add a parent to a birth certificate? view the easiest way to add a parent to a birth certificate is via the voluntary affidavit of paternity (ap). please email the special services unit at bvsspecialservices@alaska.gov with your mailing address, and they will provide you with the necessary forms and instructions. a parent can also be added to the birth certificate by a state court or by child support services. please contact your local courthouse or the child support agency directly for further instructions how do i request a new birth certificate following a cultural adoption? view please download and complete the cultural adoption packet . instructions for submission are included in the packet. please note that this request may take up to 4 months to process. how long does it take to process a special services request? view corrections and paternities : once the original document is received by special services unit, please allow us 16 weeks for processing, this does not include shipping time. please note that the ss unit requires original and/or certified copies in order to amend a vital record. court documents, affidavits of paternity or correction, and any other legal document that have original signatures can’t be faxed or emailed. adoptions : alaska state court adoptions are received from the court system in monthly batches 1 – 2 months after the adoption has occurred. please allow us 16 weeks for processing the new birth certificate after receipt of the adoption, this does not include shipping time. please note that we give priority to adoptions completed correctly before mailing letters for unacceptable ones. please allow us 16 weeks for processing cultural or tribal court adoptions, this does not include shipping time. please note that we give priority to cultural or tribal court adoptions completed correctly before mailing letters for unacceptable ones. please visit our cultural adoption packet and cultural adoption training . i have an additional question, who do i email? view to inquire about adoptions, correction, and affidavits of paternity, email the special services unit at bvsspecialservices@alaska.gov . please allow us 3 – 5 business days to respond. services and fees certified copies of vital records view birth certificates, marriage certificates, death certificates first copy: $30 additional copies: $25 each certified copies may also be ordered online through vitalchek.com , a third-party vendor. these orders may occur additional fees set by the vendor. heirloom birth certificate includes $25 to the children's trust fund. first copy: $55 additional copies: $50 each heirloom marriage certificate includes $35 to the children's trust fund. first copy: $65 additional copies: $60 each marriage licenses marriage license: $60 re-issue a marriage license: $15 marijuana cards view medical marijuana card: $25 medical marijuana card renewals: $20 other services view delayed certificate (includes registration + 1 certificate): $60 apostille for foreign country (includes 1 certificate): $42 birth certificate (post-paternity adjudication, includes 1 certificate): $60 substitute birth certificate (post-adoption, includes 1 certificate): $60 legal name change/record amendment (includes 1 certificate): $60 special research requests (per hour): $75 open records white copy: $15 government vital record white copy: $10 vital record verification match: $2.50 health facilities data reporting (single quarter): $575 health facilities data reporting (annual/research access): $2,000 resources heirloom and commemorative certificates heirloom birth certificate order a keepsake birth certificate designed by an alaskan artist heirloom marriage certificate choose from three designs to get a certificate as beautiful as the occasion historical vital records data health analytics and vital records (havrs) data and statistics data and statistics from health analytics vital records for research and reports related services burial transit permit cultural adoption related organizations health analytics and vital records related education related topics contact us health analytics and vital records - juneau office fax number: 907-465-3618 doh.havrs.info@alaska.gov 907-465-3391 907-465-3618 po box 110675, juneau, ak 99811 health analytics and vital records - anchorage office fax number: 907-269-0994 doh.havrs.info@alaska.gov 907-269-0991 907-269-0994 3901 old seward highway, suite 101, anchorage, ak 99503 state of alaska | department of health accessibility archives careers state of alaska state employees intranet myalaska departments facebook linkedin youtube x instagram govdelivery department contact information 3601 c street, suite 902 anchorage, alaska 99503 350 main street, suite 404 juneau, ak 99811 s n uu d ng g idang? (xaat k l) hello, how are you? department of health department contacts email the department email the webmaster copyright © state of alaska