maryland department of health birthcorrect you may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. please enable scripts and reload this page. javascript required javascript is required to use content on this page. please enable javascript in your browser. skip to content accessibility information it looks like your browser does not have javascript enabled. please turn on javascript and try again. maryland department of health vital statistics administration vital statistics administration currently selected vital records health statistics md-edrs contact us section menu quick links mdh vsa home currently selected frequently asked questions how to identify a certified birth certificate fema funeral reimbursement for covid-19 deaths how to request certificates corrections genealogical information health statistics reports and data request data overdose reports left_content ​​​ birth certificate corrections main_content information ​a birth certificate registered by the state registrar may be amended in accordance with md. code ann., health-general § 4-214. the state registrar adopts rules governing the form of these requests and the type and amount of proof required. to request a change to a birth certificate, you may email the affidavit and associated paperwork to [email protected] and a representative will contact you directly regarding the request and payment options. you may also mail the request to amend a birth record form with a $10 amendment fee and a $10 certificate fee noting on the form what type of change is needed. after we receive your request and the amendment fee, we will evaluate your request for processing and respond, in writing, if there is a need for additional information. changes to birth certificates include: affidavit to correct information affidavit to change name within 12 months of birth affidavit to add a given name change sex designation affidavit of parentage obtaining a court order for birth certificate changes​ center_content maryland department of health 201 w. preston street, baltimore, md 21201 (410)767-6500 or 1-877-463-3464 about mdh contact us 988 suicide & crisis lifeline