vital records | health human services skip to main content official state of iowa website agencies a-z programs & services health human services search menu main navigation assistance programs assistance programs sub-navigation apply for services cash assistance child care assistance family planning program food assistance housing rent assistance job training medicaid health coverage refugee services state supplementary assistance women, infants, children (wic) all assistance programs medicaid medicaid sub-navigation apply for medicaid program integrity member services plans programs services care provider services all medicaid programs services about medicaid about medicare health prevention health prevention sub-navigation for patients caregivers medical cannabis report a disease or outbreak addiction substance use disorders animal safety and disease prevention birth maternal care brain memory health cancer child adolescent health consumable hemp dental oral health diabetes prevention management disease information environmental health family health family planning reproductive health food, diet exercise heart health healthcare-associated infections hiv, sti and hepatitis violence prevention behavioral health service system refugee health tobacco use prevention control vaccines immunizations providers professionals all health prevention family community family community sub-navigation abuse registry community integration disability services flourish magazine record check evaluations sunny day fund thrive iowa aging disability resource center aging services adult protective services child care child protective services child support court-appointed special advocates (casa) disaster recovery early intervention support family development self-sufficiency (fadss) fatherhood support foster care adoption marriage, birth, or death certificates specialty care facilities all family community services report abuse fraud report abuse fraud sub-navigation mandatory reporter information student abuse investigations about about sub-navigation administrative rules mission vision strategic plan advisory groups appeal a decision careers data reports funding opportunities initiatives leadership newsroom open records phab accreditation policy manuals public meetings agencies a-z online services breadcrumbs home family community services vital records topics: programs services family community services on this page... limitations to records general information fees for records availability of records record searches statistics indexes of births, deaths, marriages in the state of iowa other resources all vital events occurring in the state such as birth, death, and marriage, and the bureau has an interstate exchange agreement with all of the other states. the bureau registers approximately 100,000 events and issues about 85,000 certified copies annually. in iowa, official registration of births, deaths, and marriages began july 1, 1880. all original records that have been registered are on file with iowa hhs, bureau of vital statistics. statewide record searches are available from the state registrar. local registrars are located in county recorders offices and maintain records of birth, death and marriages that have occurred in that county. request a record learn how to request vital records from the state of iowa. our team is happy to help you get started. back to top limitations to records county registrars do not have the following records in their physical custody: single-parent births prior to july 1, 1995; adoptions; birth records after a legal change of name through iowa code chapter 674; delayed records filed one year or more after the event; any record ordered to be sealed by a court of law; birth, death, and marriage records from the years 1921 to 1941. all applications for certified copies of vital record events must be in writing and completely identify the record, as well as satisfactorily establish entitlement to the record being requested. entitled persons include the person named on the record or that person’s spouse, children, legal parents, grandparents, grandchildren, siblings, or legal representative or guardian. legal guardians, legal representatives, and siblings must also provide additional proof of entitlement. certified copies of birth, death, or marriage certificates may be obtained from the state office of vital records by telephone, in-person, or through the postal service. fees are payable by check or money order made out to the iowa department of health and human services. in-person requests may also be paid by credit card—cash payments are not accepted. fees must be paid at the time of the application. fees must be paid in u.s. funds to the issuing registrar's office. in some instances, the local county registrar (county recorder) may only accept cash or money orders for in-person requests and money orders for mail-in requests. all applications must be accompanied by a valid, current government-issued photo i.d. (legible photocopy if applying by mail), and all applicants must satisfactorily prove entitlement. administrative processing fees at the state level are $15 as of july 1, 2019. this includes amendments, delayed registrations, legal change of names, recission of paternity affidavit, paternity registry searches by adoption attorneys, revelation of county of adoption, private paternity establishment judgments, court orders, and any other action requiring an administrative processing fee. the application fee for the mutual consent voluntary adoption registry remains unchanged at $25. for further information on birth, death, or marriage certificates: call 515-281-4944 , or email all general vital record questions to [email protected] vital records office location: iowa department of health and human services bureau of health statistics lucas state office building 1st floor, 321 e. 12th street des moines, iowa 50319-0075 back to top general information the iowa state board of health was established on july 1, 1880. during the first meeting, they created an iowa vital records system of birth, death, and marriage record keeping. at the same time, registration responsibilities were not well defined, resulting in poor record keeping in some areas of the state. a few events, primarily marriages, were recorded in some counties prior to the 1880 date; however, little information is included on those records. back to top fees for records at both the county and state level, a fee of $20.00 is required for each record search conducted, with a copy issued if one is found. if the record is not found, a record search letter, also called a no-record letter, will be provided. the fee is not refundable. back to top availability of records county records at both the county and state levels, a fee of $20.00 is required for each record search conducted. a copy will be issued if the record is found. if no record is located, a record search confirmation letter, also known as a no-record letter, will be provided. the fee is non-refundable. to secure a certified copy of a record from the county-of-event, applicants must have direct or tangible interest in the record. in other words, you must be the registrant (person named on the record) or have a lineal relationship to the registrant, such as a legal parent, grandparent, spouse, brother, sister, child, legal guardian, or legal representative. all requests or applications for each certificate must be in writing and include the purpose for the certificate. state records vital records maintained at the state level are closed to inspection and are not open to public inspection. to secure a certified copy of a record from the state, applicants must have the same direct and tangible entitlement as for a county record. requests may be in writing or by telephone using a credit card. back to top record searches applicants should follow the index schedule if the exact name, date, or place of event is unknown. back to top statistics indexes of births, deaths, marriages in the state of iowa note: official registration began in iowa - july 1, 1880. birth indexes* death indexes* marriage indexes* 1880-1889 1896-1900 1916-1921 1890-1899 1901-1903 1921-1925 (groom only) 1900-1909 1904-1929 1926-1930 (groom only) 1910-1919 1930-1959 1931-1939 1920-1929 1960-1979 1940-1952 1930-1939 1980-1989 1953-1959 1940-1949 1990-current 1960-1969 1950-1959 1970-1979 1960-1969 1980-1989 1970-1979 1990-current 1980-1989 1990-current ⤢ * index search : at both the county and state level, a fee of $20.00 is required for each birth, death, or marriage index search conducted, with a copy issued if one is found. if the record is not found, a no-record letter will be provided. the fee is non-refundable. death record search for the years 1880-1895: to search, the county of occurrence and the year must be furnished. a fee of $20.00 for each year and county is required, with a copy issued if one is found. if the record is not found, a no-record letter will be provided. the fee is non-refundable. marriage record search for the years 1880-1915: to search, the county of occurrence and the year must be furnished. a fee of $20.00 for each year and county is required, with a copy issued if one is found. if the record is not found, a no-record letter will be provided. the fee is non-refundable. back to top other resources iowa census enumerations began in 1850. the final census was taken in 1925. these records are open to the public. for more information, visit or write: iowa department of cultural affairs library archives bureau state historical museum 600 e. locust street des moines, iowa 50319 genealogical information and assistance may also be obtained by writing to: iowa genealogical society 628 e. grand avenue des moines, iowa 50309-1924 customer satisfaction survey we want to hear from you. please take our customer satisfaction survey so we can continue to improve our records process. back to top secondary navigation menu family community abuse registry community integration client assistance program employment supports employment supports programs independent living program olmstead plan autism support program targeted case management disability services ds member resources ds provider resources find your disability access point flourish magazine record check evaluations sunny day fund thrive iowa aging disability resource center aging services ltc ombudsman abuse prevention legal assistance caregiver resources home modification iowa area agencies on aging for aaa professionals iowa centenarians nutrition wellness congregate nutrition locations falls prevention fresh conversations support services adult protective services frequently asked questions office of the public guardian dependent adult abuse reports child care child care assistance child care funding opportunities statewide child care solutions fund child care licensing child care news initiatives child care statistics child care tools and resources find child care healthy child care iowa iq4k child care providers child protective services cps town halls child abuse statistics child protective services licensing contracts crisis intervention stabilization and reunification (cisr) recruitment, retention, training and support parent partners cps data and reports safe haven vision child support court-appointed special advocates (casa) casa locations disaster recovery project recovery iowa behavioral health disaster response early intervention support home visitation programs icapp safe infant sleep family development self-sufficiency (fadss) fatherhood support foster care adoption adoption subsidy kinship care subsidized guardianship program therapeutic foster care transitioning into adulthood marriage, birth, or death certificates how to request a certified record genealogy search guidelines requirements open adoption records original birth certificates specialty care facilities cherokee mental health institute civil commitment unit for sexual offenders independence mental health institute state training school woodward resource center wrc center of excellence all family community services health human services footer social media menu opens in a new window. opens in a new window. opens in a new window. opens in a new window. opens in a new window. department of health and human services lucas building 321 east 12th street des moines , ia 50319 phone (800) 972-2017 how can we help? share feedback with us footer menu footer about iowa hhs about hhs public meetings events careers volunteer opportunities newsroom data breach notifications resources data reports request vital records your life iowa office of the state medical examiner accessibility assistance contact locations contact us report a disease or outbreak area agencies on aging hhs office locations legal accessibility hipaa nondiscrimination policy privacy archived documents contact menu send feedback © 2026 state of iowa - read our accessibility, data, privacy, and other policies .