illinois general assembly - 735 ilcs 5/ code of civil procedure. select language the illinois general assembly offers the google translate™ service for visitor convenience. in no way should it be considered accurate as to the translation of any content herein. visitors of the illinois general assembly website are encouraged to use other translation services available on the internet. the english language version is always the official and authoritative version of this website. note: to return to the original english language version, select the "show original" button on the google translate™ menu bar at the top of the window. choose language english afrikaans albanian arabic armenian azerbaijani basque bengali bosnian catalan croatian czech danish dutch esperanto estonian filipino finnish french galician georgian german greek gujarati haitian creole hausa hawaiian hebrew hindi hungarian icelandic indonesian interlingua interlingue inuktitut irish italian japanese javanese kannada khmer korean latin latvian lithuanian luxembourgish macedonian malagasy malayalam maltese maori marathi myanmar nepali norwegian odia pashto punjabi romanian russian samoan sango sanskrit sardinian sindhi sinhala slovak slovenian somali southern sotho spanish sundanese swahili swedish tamil telugu thai tigrinya tonga turkish ukrainian urdu vietnamese welsh xhosa yiddish yoruba zulu powered by translate close illinois general assembly top navigation bar translate learn select general assembly search the 104th general assembly enter search terms for legislation, members, committees, or schedules. ilga.gov legislation laws bills & resolutions public acts illinois compiled statutes illinois constitution search legislation glossary guide reports inquiry legislative reports special reports ftp site legislator lookup capitol complex phone numbers rules regulations illinois register administrative rules senate members schedules committees request for remote testimony journals transcripts rules audio/video foia information senate employment opportunities media guidelines house members schedules committees submit testimony for house committees journals transcripts rules audio/video foia information house employment opportunities log in mobile top bar search the 104th general assembly enter keywords to search the illinois general assembly website. 735 ilcs 5/ code of civil procedure. home legislation illinois compiled statutes 735 ilcs 5/ code of civil procedure. illinois compiled statutes - civil procedure (735 ilcs 5/) code of civil procedure. back to act listing by act name illinois compiled statutes (ilcs) updating the database of the illinois compiled statutes (ilcs) is an ongoing process. recent laws may not yet be included in the ilcs database, but they are found on this site as public acts soon after they become law. for information concerning the relationship between statutes and public acts, refer to the guide . because the statute database is maintained primarily for legislative drafting purposes, statutory changes are sometimes included in the statute database before they take effect. if the source note at the end of a section of the statutes includes a public act that has not yet taken effect, the version of the law that is currently in effect may have already been removed from the database and you should refer to that public act to see the changes made to the current law. disclaimer view entire act article i - general provisions article ii - civil practice part 1 - venue part 2 - process part 3 - appearance part 4 - parties part 5 - appointment of guardians part 6 - pleading part 7 - action for declaratory judgment part 8 - class action part 9 - action on penal bond part 10 - pre-trial steps part 10a - mandatory arbitration system part 11 - trial part 12 - post-trial part 13 - judgment part 14 - post-judgment part 15 - abolition of writs part 16 - revival of judgment part 17 - healing art malpractice part 18 - mittimus part 19 - lis pendens part 20 - crime victims part 21 - product liability part 22 - insurance placement liability part 23 - settlement article iii - administrative review article iv - attachment part 1 - in general part 2 - watercraft article v - costs article vi - ejectment article vii - eminent domain (repealed) article viii - evidence part 1 - interested person as witness part 2 - dead-man s act part 3 - surviving partner or joint contractor part 4 - account books and records part 5 - effect of release or assignment part 6 - certain laws unaffected part 7 - broadcast or televised testimony part 8 - privileged communications part 9 - reporter s privilege part 9.1 - voter s privilege part 9.2 - interpreter s privilege part 10 - judicial notice part 11 - statutes and reports part 12 - records and patents part 13 - surveys part 14 - interpreters part 15 - proof of handwriting part 16 - proof of deeds and writings part 17 - title to land of illinois central railroad part 18 - claims regarding work on realty part 19 - admission of liability part 20 - inspection of records part 21 - medical studies part 22 - coroner s records part 23 - perpetuating testimony part 24 - application to criminal cases part 25 - expert witness standards part 26 - minors part 27 - elder adults part 28 - prior sexual activity or reputation as evidence part 29 - immigration status article ix - eviction part 1 - in general part 2 - recovery of rent termination of certain tenancies part 3 - distress for rent article x - habeas corpus article xi - injunction part 1 - in general part 3 - disbursement of public moneys article xii - judgments - enforcement part 1 - in general part 2 - trial of right of property part 3 - concealing property part 4 - redemption by state part 5 - federal judgments part 6 - foreign judgments and foreign-money claims part 7 - garnishment part 8 - wage deductions part 9 - exemption of homestead part 10 - exemption of personal property part 11 - garnishment in violation of exemption part 12 - exemption in bankruptcy part 14 - orders to take into custody article xiii - limitations part 1 - real actions part 2 - personal actions article xiv - mandamus article xv - mortgage foreclosure part 11 - general provisions part 12 - definitions part 13 - mortgage lien priorities part 14 - methods of terminating mortgagor s interest in real estate part 15 - judicial foreclosure procedure part 16 - reinstatement and redemption part 17 - possession during foreclosure article xvi - ne exeat article xvii - partition article xviii - quo warranto article xix - replevin article xix-c - effective date article xx - recovery of fraudulently obtained public funds article xxi - change of name article xxii - frivolous lawsuits filed by prisoners article xxiii - sexual abuse per se harmful disclaimer this site contains provisions of the illinois compiled statutes from databases that were created for the use of the members and staff of the illinois general assembly. the provisions have not been edited for publication, and are not in any sense the "official" text of the illinois compiled statutes as enacted into law. the accuracy of any specific provision originating from this site cannot be assured, and you are urged to consult the official documents or contact legal counsel of your choice. this site should not be cited as an official or authoritative source. court decisions may affect the interpretation and constitutionality of statutes. footer disclaimer this site is maintained for the illinois general assembly by the legislative information system, 705 stratton building, springfield, illinois 62706. contact ilga webmaster ilga.gov uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. by continuing to browse ilga.gov you consent to our use of cookies. read about cookies ilga.gov 2026 ilga.gov | all rights reserved | ada | disclaimers | learn this site is maintained for the illinois general assembly by the legislative information system, 705 stratton building, springfield, illinois 62706. contact ilga webmaster ilga.gov uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. by continuing to browse ilga.gov you consent to our use of cookies. read about cookies ilga.gov 2026 ilga.gov | all rights reserved | ada | disclaimers | learn