updating sex and gender markers on identification (faq) | illinois legal aid online skip to main content https://www.illinoislegalaid.org/legal-information/updating-sex-and-gender-markers-identification date: 09/05/2026 english ▼ english español we open opportunities for justice. user account menu quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. contact log in sign up mobile - search block google custom search block buscar get legal help about us resources " class="we-megamenu-nolink"> i am... a senior (60 years or older) an immigrant to the u.s. someone with a family member who was in jail or prison a member of the lgbtqia+ community a veteran, active duty military or have had military service a youth or parent of a youth a survivor of abuse or crime homeless or at risk of homelessness living with a disability living with hiv/aids a non-profit organization or small business family safety house apartment money debt business work school education health benefits immigrants immigration voting civil rights crime traffic estates powers of attorney courts hearings form library glossary for legal professionals practice resources lawyer manuals iicle library ltf initiatives calendar job postings discussion groups volunteer with us mobile login menu user account menu user account menu quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. contact log in sign up language switcher block language switcher english we open opportunities for justice. get legal help how can we help you? ask ilao english ▼ english español for free, confidential legal help with lgbtqia+ issues in illinois, call the il pride connect legal hotline at (855) 805-9200 . breadcrumb home voting civil rights lgbtqia+ issues updating sex and gender markers on identification addtoany buttons print print this to take with you share share this page to social media channels quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. donate help ilao open opportunities for justice voting civil rights worried about doing this on your own? you may be able to get free legal help. apply online updating sex and gender markers on identification faq addtoany buttons print print this to take with you share share this page to social media channels quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. donate help ilao open opportunities for justice expand all collapse all how do illinois and federal laws differ about gender or sex markers on identification? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × illinois law provides gender designations on state identification that: include male, female, or x options, can be updated in any sequence, do not require a court order or medical documentation, and do not have to match. people who want to change their legal name on identification documents must go to court and ask a judge to enter a name change order . federal law allows sex markers that: are either male or female , and match sex assigned at birth. talk to a lawyer about legal issues and safety risks before submitting applications for federal identification that do not match how a person's sex was listed at birth. to find legal help: use get legal help , or call the il pride connect legal hotline at (855) 805-9200 , or contact the transformative justice law project of illinois . what is an x gender marker? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × illinois identification includes x as an option for people who do not identify as male or female. the x identifier is not available in all states and countries and can prevent travelers from entering some foreign jurisdictions . federal identification no longer includes an x marker. federal agencies decide whether a person receives a male or female marker based on sex at birth. documents issued before january 20, 2025, that have updated sex or x gender markers are valid until they expire. do all sex and gender markers on identification have to match? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × no, not in illinois. illinois law allows people to have multiple forms of identification with a different sex or gender listed on each, as long as they are not issued by the same agency. for example, a person might have a birth certificate that lists their gender as male and an x on their driver's license. however, an illinois driver's license and state identification card are issued by the same office and must have the same marker. what gender or sex markers are available on passports issued by the federal department of state? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × the department of state issues passports with male and female sex markers. the designation is based on whether a person was listed as male or female at birth, not their current identity. before applying for or renewing a passport with a sex designation that does not match a person’s assigned sex at birth, talk to a lawyer: use get legal help , call the il pride connect legal hotline at (855) 805-9200, or contact the transformative justice law project of illinois . during 2025, passport policies about sex markers changed several times: before january 20, 2025, united states passports were issued with male, female, and x markers. as long as these passports remain otherwise valid, they can still be used for travel. on november 6, 2025, the supreme court allowed the government to resume printing passports with only male or female sex markers . this information is drawn from "a historical fact" of the person's sex assigned at birth. talk to a lawyer about any concerns regarding interactions with department of state employees. how does the gender designation on identification impact international travel? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × some countries criminalize lgbtqia+ status and expression, including gender diversity and consensual same-sex relations. entry officials may only be able to accept male or female sex markers on passports. same-sex marriage is also not recognized in many other countries. the united states cannot require other countries to make exceptions for american travelers, including those who are united states citizens. learn more by reading the state department's current information for lgb travelers . what is the transportation security authority s policy on gender or sex markers on identification? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × before january 20, 2025, the transportation security administration (tsa) precheck program allowed male, female, or x gender marker updates . the gender designation provided to precheck did not need to match the gender marker on the identification used for flying. new or renewing precheck applications require selecting male or female . applying for precheck requires the names on the application and identification to match. talk to a lawyer or seek legal help before risking a mismatch of gender markers. use get legal help , call the il pride connect legal hotline at (855) 805-9200, or contact the transformative justice law project of illinois . documents with an x gender marker are valid until they expire. tsa employees cannot turn travelers away with these valid documents. travelers without precheck may still be flagged for further search while going through the screening process at airports with older equipment. to report discrimination or harassment by tsa employees, fill out and submit a tsa complaint form within 180 days. what gender or sex markers are available on federal social security cards? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × social security cards can only have male or female sex designations. before applying for or renewing a social security card with a sex designation that does not match a person's assigned sex at birth, talk to a lawyer: use get legal help , call the il pride connect legal hotline at (855) 805-9200, or contact the transformative justice law project of illinois . to report discrimination or harassment by social security administration employees, complete a program discrimination complaint form or write a letter with the same information, and send it by email or postal mail to the addresses listed on the form within 180 days. do illinois laws allow people to update sex or gender markers on state-issued identification? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × illinois state agencies allow male, female, or x gender markers on all official forms. illinois law prohibits discrimination against people changing their gender marker on state-issued identification. for help updating an illinois-issued identification document: use get legal help , or call the il pride connect legal hotline at (855) 805-9200 , or contact the transformative justice law project of illinois (tjlp). to report gender-related discrimination or harassment by illinois state employees or agencies, file a report of public accommodations discrimination with the illinois department of human rights (idhr) within 2 years. what gender or sex markers are available on driver s licenses and id cards issued by the illinois secretary of state? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × illinois real ids, driver's licenses, or state identification cards can have male, female, or x gender markers. if a person has multiple types of identification issued by the illinois secretary of state, they must have the same gender marker. however, they do not have to have the same gender markers as documents issued by other agencies. getting or correcting these documents requires visiting a secretary of state facility. an appointment may be required . to change the gender marker on identification issued by the secretary of state, bring a completed gender designation change form and a current illinois driver’s license or state identification card. fees for new and corrected identification are listed online. issues with discrimination or harassment from secretary of state employees during this process can be reported to idhr . they can also be reported by filling out an illinois secretary of state discrimination complaint form and mailing it to the illinois secretary of state, equal opportunity employment officer, 17 n. state, suite 1300, chicago, il 60602. what gender or sex markers are available on birth certificates issued by the illinois department of health? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × illinois birth certificates can have male, female, or x gender markers. to request a change in the gender marker on an illinois birth certificate, follow the illinois department of public health (idph) division of vital records instructions . the process requires mailing idph: a notarized, completed affidavit and certificate of correction request , a copy of the applicant's up-to-date government-issued photo identification, and a $15 check or money order payable to idph. does changing a gender or sex marker on identification impact the ability to vote in illinois? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × voter registration cards can have male, female, or x sex designations. illinois residents cannot be denied the right to vote based on gender identity or expression. the aclu’s guide to voting in illinois while trans, non-binary, or gender non-conforming provides more information about common concerns. changes to a gender designation on illinois real ids, driver’s licenses, or state identification cards can be electronically sent to the election authority. to do so, the applicant must agree to: register to vote, or update their registration. many illinois polling places offer grace period registration. voters can use the grace period to update their gender in the system. updates to gender on birth certificates are not electronically sent to the election authority. people must take the necessary steps to update their voter registration with the illinois board of elections . discrimination or harassment while voting can be reported by: filing a complaint asking the illinois attorney general’s office to investigate, reporting the issue to the illinois department of human rights within 300 days, or submitting a complaint to the illinois state board of elections, identifying the statutory provision that has been violated, and mailing it to executive director, illinois state board of elections, 69 w. washington st., suite ll08, chicago, il 60602. in cook county, issues can also be reported to the cook county commission on human rights within 180 days. how do i correct the gender marker on a non-illinois birth certificate? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × illinois cannot change birth certificates issued by other states or countries. learn more about updating non-illinois birth certificates . illinois residents can ask an illinois judge to issue an order making factual findings to help correct a birth certificate issued by another state or country. for help figuring out options: use get legal help , or call the il pride connect legal hotline at (855) 805-9200, or contact the transformative justice law project of illinois (tjlp). who can i contact if i need help with updating identity documents? copy link to this question the link has been copied. × use get legal help or call the il pride connect legal hotline at (855) 805-9200 . the transformative justice law project of illinois (tjlp) may also be able to help. last full review by a subject matter expert july 29, 2026 last revised by staff august 11, 2026 about our legal information worried about doing this on your own? you may be able to get free legal help. apply online what’s next? you have learned the basics. choose what you would like to do next. icon learn more find detailed explanations, frequently asked questions, videos, and related topics. arrow your feedback is the best way for us to improve our services. how can we improve this site? contact us © 2026 illinois legal aid online. all rights reserved. ilao is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. ilao's tax identification number is 20-2917133. english company about team impact plans and vision story events annual report ilao in the news why donate? work with us resources family safety house apartment money debt business work school education health benefits immigrants immigration voting civil rights crime traffic estates powers of attorney court hearings quick links form library ready to work portal victims of crime portal new leaf portal power of planning portal legal self-help centers debt help illinois terms and policies privacy policy terms of use site faqs © 2026 illinois legal aid online. all rights reserved. ilao is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. ilao's tax identification number is 20-2917133.