starting a case to change the name of an adult (how-to) | illinois legal aid online skip to main content https://www.illinoislegalaid.org/legal-information/changing-your-name date: 09/05/2026 english ▼ english español we open opportunities for justice. user account menu quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. contact log in sign up mobile - search block google custom search block buscar get legal help about us resources " class="we-megamenu-nolink"> i am... a senior (60 years or older) an immigrant to the u.s. someone with a family member who was in jail or prison a member of the lgbtqia+ community a veteran, active duty military or have had military service a youth or parent of a youth a survivor of abuse or crime homeless or at risk of homelessness living with a disability living with hiv/aids a non-profit organization or small business family safety house apartment money debt business work school education health benefits immigrants immigration voting civil rights crime traffic estates powers of attorney courts hearings form library glossary for legal professionals practice resources lawyer manuals iicle library ltf initiatives calendar job postings discussion groups volunteer with us mobile login menu user account menu user account menu quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. contact log in sign up language switcher block language switcher english español we open opportunities for justice. get legal help how can we help you? ask ilao english ▼ english español breadcrumb home family safety adult name change starting a case to change the name of an adult addtoany buttons print print this to take with you share share this page to social media channels quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. donate help ilao open opportunities for justice family safety worried about doing this on your own? you may be able to get free legal help. apply online the big picture learn more about adult name changes and reasons why adults may want to make this change. more on adult name change basics starting a case to change the name of an adult how-to print print this to take with you share share this page to social media channels quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. donate help ilao open opportunities for justice the laws involving adult name change were updated beginning january 1, 2024, and again on march 1, 2025. you can read more about the new adult name change information and forms on the illinois courts website. for an adult in illinois to legally change their name, forms will have to be filed to begin the process. learn more about adult name change common questions . fill out the forms you will need to fill out these two forms to begin the process to change your name: request for name change (adult name change) : asks the judge to change your name. order for name change (adult name change) : the judge will sign this to approve or deny to refuse or say no your request. you will need this to change your name. if you were born outside of illinois in a state that allows changes to a birth record after a legal name change, there may be additional information required in the order to change the records. research what is required so you can include this in the order. if it would be a hardship or have a negative impact on your health or safety to have your court file open to the public, you can file a motion to impound (make court records private) along with the order to impound . your forms will be considered a public record until the judge signs the order granting the motion, assuming it is granted. if the motion is granted, then only people involved in the case (such as court staff and the judge) can see the documents unless the judge gives someone else permission. note that if you are filing your name change in cook county (1st district), then you must also file a photo or scan of your birth certificate a legal document with a person's place of birth, time of birth, and parents and photo id as an exhibit a document introduced as evidence in a trial (pdf a type of document that can be viewed and printed from many devices in portrait orientation). you can redact sensitive information. if your id does not show a cook county address, provide additional proof of address like a bill or lease. if your birth certificate is in a language other than english, you may need to provide a certified translation. fill out your forms with our easy form program . after you fill out your forms, sign them and make three copies of each one. file the forms now that you have filled out your forms, you need to file them with the appropriate circuit clerk . you will need to electronically file ("e-file") them unless you have an exemption . there are fees to file many court forms, especially when starting a case. fees are different from case to case and county to county. contact the circuit clerk to find out about their fees. many circuit clerks list their fees on their website. if you qualify, you can get a fee waiver . a fee waiver allows you to file for free or at a reduced cost. get hearing date when you file your name change forms, you'll need a hearing when the parties in a case present their sides of a case to a judge or other officer date. how you will find out about the court date (or hearing date) and time depends on how you filed your case. e-filing: short for "electronic filing." you file court papers using a computer instead of handing them to the clerk in person. this is required in illinois as of 1/1/18. the website you used to electronically file may let you pick your court date (or hearing date) and time, or you will receive your hearing date when your filing is approved. if not, contact the clerk. paper filing: if you filed in person at the courthouse, the clerk will let you pick, or they may pick for you. go to court you will have a hearing when the parties in a case present their sides of a case to a judge or other officer before a judge regarding your request to change your name. the hearing might be held in person at the courthouse. it might also be a “remote appearance” a form that lets the plaintiff and the court know the defendant is participating in the case. it can also be when a person shows up to their court hearing. over the phone or video. if you’re going in person, get to the courtroom listed on your form at least 45 minutes before your hearing time. bring with you: stamped copies of the request for name change (adult any person 18 years old or over name change) and order for name change (adult name change) , photo id, criminal records, such as records showing your felony a serious crime that is punishable by more than one year in prison sentences were discharged, as well as information relevant to your eligibility to change your name, and judgment an official decision by a court that ends the dispute between parties for dissolution of marriage divorce or declaration of invalidity of marriage if you're changing your name due to divorce. check in quietly with the judge's clerk. wait for your name and case number a number assigned to a case that is on every paper filed in the case to be called. if appearing by zoom, log in five minutes before your hearing time. the zoom courtroom likely won’t be open before then. make sure the zoom account shows your name. you will be required to have your camera on for the hearing. you may be placed under oath. answer a written statement used to respond to the complaint or petition in a lawsuit the judge's questions truthfully. the judge may grant or deny to refuse or say no your request for name change (adult) , or they may schedule another court hearing if they need more information. if granting or denying the request, the judge will write this on your order for name change (adult) and sign it. if the judge approves your name change and you appeared in person, the judge’s clerk may give you a copy of the signed order to be filed with the clerk. go to the appropriate clerk’s office to ask for certified copies. if you appear by zoom, a copy of the order will be emailed to you. you will receive instructions on how to obtain certified copies. be sure to obtain multiple certified copies, as you will need these to request updated records and documents from organizations and businesses. if the court denies your name change request, ask for another hearing you have the right to ask for another hearing when the parties in a case present their sides of a case to a judge or other officer if your name change request is denied. if your request was denied because of a mistake on your part, ask the judge to continue the hearing to a later date so you can correct the error. whenever you lose in court, you have the right to file an appeal . you will have 30 days from the date of the judge's decision to do this. last full review by a subject matter expert march 24, 2025 last revised by staff march 25, 2025 about our legal information icon forms create forms to help resolve your legal issue. arrow name change for an adult easy form this easy form helps you make the forms to ask the court to change your name. if you have a spouse, they can request a name change at the same time on your forms. use only if you are 18 or older. icon learn more find detailed explanations, frequently asked questions, videos, and related topics. arrow correcting a name on a birth or death certificate text article an overview of the affidavit procedure available, as well as the documentation and payment required. changing a child s name faq learn who can ask to change a child s name in illinois, what a judge considers, court costs, and what happens if others disagree. worried about doing this on your own? you may be able to get free legal help. apply online the big picture learn more about adult name changes and reasons why adults may want to make this change. more on adult name change basics what’s next? you have learned the basics. choose what you would like to do next. icon forms create forms to help resolve your legal issue. arrow name change for an adult easy form this easy form helps you make the forms to ask the court to change your name. if you have a spouse, they can request a name change at the same time on your forms. use only if you are 18 or older. icon learn more find detailed explanations, frequently asked questions, videos, and related topics. arrow correcting a name on a birth or death certificate text article an overview of the affidavit procedure available, as well as the documentation and payment required. changing a child s name faq learn who can ask to change a child s name in illinois, what a judge considers, court costs, and what happens if others disagree. your feedback is the best way for us to improve our services. how can we improve this site? contact us © 2026 illinois legal aid online. all rights reserved. ilao is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. ilao's tax identification number is 20-2917133. english español company about team impact plans and vision story events annual report ilao in the news why donate? work with us resources family safety house apartment money debt business work school education health benefits immigrants immigration voting civil rights crime traffic estates powers of attorney court hearings quick links form library ready to work portal victims of crime portal new leaf portal power of planning portal legal self-help centers debt help illinois terms and policies privacy policy terms of use site faqs © 2026 illinois legal aid online. all rights reserved. ilao is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. ilao's tax identification number is 20-2917133.