filing court papers for free (how-to) | illinois legal aid online skip to main content https://www.illinoislegalaid.org/legal-information/filing-court-papers-free date: 09/05/2026 english ▼ english español we open opportunities for justice. user account menu quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. contact log in sign up mobile - search block google custom search block buscar get legal help about us resources " class="we-megamenu-nolink"> i am... a senior (60 years or older) an immigrant to the u.s. someone with a family member who was in jail or prison a member of the lgbtqia+ community a veteran, active duty military or have had military service a youth or parent of a youth a survivor of abuse or crime homeless or at risk of homelessness living with a disability living with hiv/aids a non-profit organization or small business family safety house apartment money debt business work school education health benefits immigrants immigration voting civil rights crime traffic estates powers of attorney courts hearings form library glossary for legal professionals practice resources lawyer manuals iicle library ltf initiatives calendar job postings discussion groups volunteer with us mobile login menu user account menu user account menu quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. contact log in sign up language switcher block language switcher english we open opportunities for justice. get legal help how can we help you? ask ilao english ▼ english español breadcrumb home court hearings fees filing court papers for free addtoany buttons print print this to take with you share share this page to social media channels quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. donate help ilao open opportunities for justice court hearings worried about doing this on your own? you may be able to get free legal help. apply online the big picture learn about court fees, who qualifies for a fee waiver, and how to apply if you cannot afford to pay. more on court fees and fee waivers basics filing court papers for free how-to print print this to take with you share share this page to social media channels quick exit internet usage can be tracked. use this to leave this site immediately. remember to clear your browser history to hide activity. donate help ilao open opportunities for justice there are fees to file most court papers. there is also a fee to serve giving court documents to someone a court case. these fees vary from county to county. if you cannot afford the fees, you can ask to have them waived. the steps below explain how to apply for a fee waiver in circuit court. the lowest level of court in illinois if your case is in the illinois appellate court or the illinois supreme court, the process is similar, but those courts have their own forms and instructions. use: fee waiver – appellate court easy form fee waiver – supreme court of illinois easy form the program will help you fill out the forms and give you instructions on how to file them at the end. if you were ordered to pay court costs the fees for going to court, including filing, serving, and getting transcripts (called “assessments”) in a criminal case and cannot afford them, use the criminal court assessments fee waiver form. gather information to fill out an application for waiver of court fees , you will need to provide information about: your income in the past month and past year, your property, your monthly expenses, and the number of people living with you who depend on you for financial support. if you get public benefits, you do not have to fill out information about your money or property. public benefits include: ssi (supplemental security income, a federal program that gives money to low-income elderly, blind and disabled people on a monthly basis not social security) aabd (aid to the aged, blind, and disabled) ga (general assistance) snap (supplemental nutrition assistance program) tanf (temporary assistance for needy families). exception: in cook county, you must still provide information about your income and property, even if you receive public benefits. fill out forms fill out the following forms: application for waiver of court fees : this form has information about you and your money, property, and debts. order for waiver of court fees : this is the form the judge will fill out when a decision is made. use our fee waiver easy form program to fill out the forms. or, you can print the application and order forms and fill them out by hand. make a copy of both the application for waiver of court fees and the order for waiver of court fees . file your forms file your forms with the clerk of the circuit court the lowest level of court in illinois where your case is being heard. civil cases: e-filing short for "electronic filing." you file court papers using a computer instead of handing them to the clerk in person. this is required in illinois as of 1/1/18. is required for most civil cases in illinois. if you cannot e-file, you may qualify for an exemption. learn more about e-filing here. criminal cases: e-filing is not required. if you are filing into a criminal case, you may file your forms in person. wait for the judge to review your application after you file your forms, the judge will review them and decide whether you must pay court fees. in most cases, the judge can make this decision just by looking at your application, without having a hearing. when the parties in a case present their sides of a case to a judge or other officer you will only need to go to court if the judge has questions or needs more information from you. if a hearing is required, the court will notify you. attend the hearing if one is scheduled if the court schedules a hearing: when the parties in a case present their sides of a case to a judge or other officer it may be by phone, video, or in person. the notice will tell you the date, time, and how the hearing will take place. the court may also ask you to submit specific documents before or at the hearing. if you are unsure how to do this, contact your circuit clerk the office that takes care of files and documents for circuit court cases for help. note for criminal fee waivers: if you filed an application for waiver a document that gives up a legal right or excuses a requirement of criminal court assessments , the court must hold your hearing within 5 - 10 business days of filing. receive a decision from the judge after reviewing your application or holding a hearing, when the parties in a case present their sides of a case to a judge or other officer the judge will fill out and sign the order on application for waiver a document that gives up a legal right or excuses a requirement of court fees . the order tells you if you must pay court fees and the deadline for payment: granted - full waiver: you do not have to pay any court fees, costs, or charges. granted - partial waiver: you must pay part of the fees, between 25% and 75%, depending on your income. denied: you do not qualify for a waiver. you must pay all court fees, costs, and charges by the deadline listed in the order. important: even if approved, the judge can later order you to pay if your financial situation changes. if partly approved, the judge may let you pay over time, delay payment, or use a payment plan. the order will give you a deadline to pay. if you do not pay by the deadline, the judge may dismiss your case or decide against you. last full review by a subject matter expert february 09, 2026 last revised by staff february 12, 2026 about our legal information icon forms create forms to help resolve your legal issue. arrow fee waiver easy form this easy form helps you ask the court to waive or reduce filing fees. fee waiver - appellate court easy form this easy form helps you ask the appellate court to waive or reduce filing fees. fee waiver - supreme court of illinois easy form this easy form helps you ask the illinois supreme court to waive or reduce filing fees. icon learn more find detailed explanations, frequently asked questions, videos, and related topics. arrow waiver of criminal court assessments faq find answers about criminal court assessments, including what they are, who qualifies for a waiver, and how to apply. court fees and fee waivers faq find answers to common questions about court fees and your options if you cannot afford to pay. worried about doing this on your own? you may be able to get free legal help. apply online the big picture learn about court fees, who qualifies for a fee waiver, and how to apply if you cannot afford to pay. more on court fees and fee waivers basics what’s next? you have learned the basics. choose what you would like to do next. icon forms create forms to help resolve your legal issue. arrow fee waiver easy form this easy form helps you ask the court to waive or reduce filing fees. fee waiver - appellate court easy form this easy form helps you ask the appellate court to waive or reduce filing fees. fee waiver - supreme court of illinois easy form this easy form helps you ask the illinois supreme court to waive or reduce filing fees. icon learn more find detailed explanations, frequently asked questions, videos, and related topics. arrow waiver of criminal court assessments faq find answers about criminal court assessments, including what they are, who qualifies for a waiver, and how to apply. court fees and fee waivers faq find answers to common questions about court fees and your options if you cannot afford to pay. your feedback is the best way for us to improve our services. how can we improve this site? contact us © 2026 illinois legal aid online. all rights reserved. ilao is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. ilao's tax identification number is 20-2917133. english company about team impact plans and vision story events annual report ilao in the news why donate? work with us resources family safety house apartment money debt business work school education health benefits immigrants immigration voting civil rights crime traffic estates powers of attorney court hearings quick links form library ready to work portal victims of crime portal new leaf portal power of planning portal legal self-help centers debt help illinois terms and policies privacy policy terms of use site faqs © 2026 illinois legal aid online. all rights reserved. ilao is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. ilao's tax identification number is 20-2917133.