filing fee frequently asked questions indiana legal help english spanish get legal help legal topics housing family and safety money and estate military, immigration, and employment driving and expungement other legal issues information and forms events about mission who we are donate partner resources menu english spanish partner resources get legal help legal topics housing family and safety money and estate military, immigration, and employment driving and expungement other legal issues information and forms events about mission who we are donate indiana legal help filing fee frequently asked questions filing fee frequently asked questions what is a filing fee? to tell a court that you want to start a legal case, you file forms with the court. when the forms that start a legal case are filed with the court, the court charges a filing fee. how to file forms with the court in person how to electronically file forms with the court how much is a civil court filing fee? the cost to file a new case in civil court: $157 . if you want the sheriff to serve the papers on the other parties, the cost to file a new case in civil court with sheriff service of process: $185 . what if i cannot afford a filing fee? under indiana law, you do not have to pay a filing fee if you meet certain requirements. a filing fee waiver asks the court to waive (not charge) a filing fee because you cannot afford to pay it. see how to file forms with the court to find the filing fee waiver instructions and form. how to file forms with the court in person how to electronically file forms with the court will the court charge a filing fee every time a document is filed? no. in general, a filing fee is only charged when a case is started (the first forms are filed). free and low cost legal help easily find organizations, services, or legal clinics available near you. simply enter your zip code or county to get started. get started info representing yourself in court should not be taken lightly, and there are many reasons why hiring an attorney is a good idea. we suggest that even if you use the forms provided on this site that you still talk to an attorney before submitting the forms to a court to get the best result possible. using the forms and legal information on this site does not make you a client of indiana legal help nor does indiana legal help accept responsibility or liability for action taken by users of this information. communication with indiana legal help is not protected by attorney client privilege or the work product doctrine—that means information shared with indiana legal help may be admissible in court. shortcuts get legal help about us information and forms upcoming events get involved partner resources topics housing family and safety money and estate military, immigration, and employment driving and expungement other legal issues funding partners partner resources mail contact us follow us on facebook copyright 2026 indiana legal help privacy policy | terms of service wordpress by seota