name change indiana legal help english spanish get legal help legal topics housing family and safety money and estate military, immigration, and employment driving and expungement other legal issues information and forms events about mission who we are donate partner resources menu english spanish partner resources get legal help legal topics housing family and safety money and estate military, immigration, and employment driving and expungement other legal issues information and forms events about mission who we are donate indiana legal help family and safety name change name change name change this form may be helpful if you would like to ask the court to change your name or your minor child s name. what are the qualifications? for the minor name change forms when parents agree: you would like to change the name of your minor child. the minor child is not in jail or prison. you are the parent or guardian of the minor child. the child is less than seventeen (17) years old. the other parent has consented, or will consent, to the name change of the child. for the minor name change forms when parents disagree: you would like to change the name of your minor child. the minor child is not in jail or prison. you are the parent or guardian of the minor child. the child is less than seventeen (17) years old. consent from the other parent or guardian is not required because any of the situations listed in indiana code 31-19-9 . for the adult name change forms: you would like to change your name. you are not in jail or prison. you are seventeen (17) years old, or older. you are not required to register as a sex or violent offender. you are not trying to avoid creditors. before starting we recommend you set aside 1-2 hours to complete all forms. get started info we’ve provided instructions on how to complete these forms on your own but representing yourself in court should not be taken lightly, and there are many reasons why hiring an attorney is a good idea. in fact, we suggest that even if you use the forms provided on this site that you still talk with an attorney before submitting the forms to a court to get the best result possible. if you do choose to represent yourself, click here for what you need to know. complete name change forms complete the name change forms packet attached below. these forms can be printed and completed with handwritten answers, or they can be filled out on the computer and then printed. glossary of legal terms file name change forms follow the guidance in the name change forms instructions to file your forms with the court. review the resources in this section for information about filing. court contact information filing fee frequently asked questions how to file forms with the court in person how to electronically file forms with the court after a case is filed once the court approves your court forms, you may need to take more steps. review the resources in this section for help and information. after a case is filed download blank forms description minor name change-parents agree instructions download_for_offline description minor name change-parents agree forms download_for_offline description minor name change-parents disagree instructions download_for_offline description minor name change-parents disagree forms download_for_offline description adult name change instructions download_for_offline description adult name change forms download_for_offline free and low cost legal help easily find organizations, services, or legal clinics available near you. simply enter your zip code or county to get started. get started info representing yourself in court should not be taken lightly, and there are many reasons why hiring an attorney is a good idea. we suggest that even if you use the forms provided on this site that you still talk to an attorney before submitting the forms to a court to get the best result possible. using the forms and legal information on this site does not make you a client of indiana legal help nor does indiana legal help accept responsibility or liability for action taken by users of this information. communication with indiana legal help is not protected by attorney client privilege or the work product doctrine—that means information shared with indiana legal help may be admissible in court. shortcuts get legal help about us information and forms upcoming events get involved partner resources topics housing family and safety money and estate military, immigration, and employment driving and expungement other legal issues funding partners partner resources mail contact us follow us on facebook copyright 2026 indiana legal help privacy policy | terms of service wordpress by seota