name change | iowa judicial branch skip to main content close open search bar menu how do i... pay a fine file a case search court records represent myself in court find jury information find a court form file a complaint request a speaker find court job openings efile efile login court forms efile instructions guides & resources efile help efile changes find a case iowa courts supreme court court of appeals district court juvenile court iowa business specialty court court interpreters court directory jury service attorney and litigant resources judicial branch budget information access to justice commission court navigator careers opr about opr esquire assistance program attorneys file your annual reports attorney self-assessment form volunteer for boards & commissions certified shorthand reporters iolta non-lawyers practicing law for the public iowa court rules court forms pay a fine or court debt representing yourself disability accommodation educational resources and services judicial branch building and courthouse tours request a speaker in the balance podcast reports complaints public records requests search iowa attorneys rfp watch oral arguments live contact us faq newsroom reporter resources expanded news media coverage news releases open search bar home how do i... pay a fine scam alert file a case search court records represent myself in court child custody child support civil court fees collecting a judgment commitments divorce interactive court forms name change paternity protecting personal information small claims find jury information find a court form file a complaint request a speaker find court job openings efile efile login court forms efile instructions guides & resources efile user guide efile help technical help desk efile changes find a case iowa courts supreme court justices senior judges in memoriam justice mccormick supreme court opinions archived supreme court opinions prior to 2017 opinions archive 2017–2018 adjudicative opinions archive 2016–2017 adjudicative opinions archive 2015–2016 adjudicative opinions archive 2014–2015 adjudicative opinions archive 2014 opinions archive 2013 opinions archive 2012 opinions archive 2011 opinions archive 2010 opinions archive 2009 opinions archive 2008 opinions archive 2007 opinions archive 2006 opinions archive 1998 supreme court expected list oral argument schedule pending cases supreme court calendar further review orders orders 2026 condition of the judiciary current judicial openings iowa appellate procedure overview constitution day 2025 what is an oral argument court on the road court of appeals judges senior judges past court of appeals judges frequently asked questions statistics 50th anniversary court history judges succession chart timeline the iowa lawyer articles 50th anniversary argument in historic courtroom court of appeals opinions archived opinions 2/7/2018 and prior archived court of appeals opinions from 1/10/2018 to 2/7/2018 archived court of appeals opinions from 2017 and earlier opinions archive 2017 opinions archive 2016 opinions archive 2015 opinions archive 2014 opinions archive 2013 opinions archive 2012 opinions archive 2011 opinions archive 2010 opinions archive 2009 opinions archive 2008 opinions archive 2007 opinions archive 2006 most recent court of appeals summaries archived summaries court of appeals expected list court of appeals oral arguments motions to continue oral arguments archived oral argument videos frequently asked questions courtroom protocol court of appeals calendar appeals on wheels clear lake - september 2025 chautauqua conference - okoboji may 2026 iowa city - february 2026 prairie meadows - june 2026 iowa state capitol- september 2026 published cases current judicial openings district court remote proceeding rules and toolkits expedited civil actions criminal statutes summary chart post judgment interest table uniform bond schedule judicial district 1 judges and magistrates announcements family law, mediation, and children in the middle informal family law trial program current judicial openings miscellaneous costs judicial district 2 judges and magistrates announcements family law, mediation, and children in the middle informal family law trial program current judicial openings miscellaneous costs judicial district 3 judges and magistrates announcements family law mediation informal family law trial program current judicial openings miscellaneous costs judicial district 4 judges and magistrates announcements family law mediation informal family law trial program current judicial openings miscellaneous costs judicial district 5 judges and magistrates announcements family law mediation probate and guardianship mediation informal family law trial program current judicial openings miscellaneous costs judicial district 6 judges and magistrates announcements family law mediation informal family law trial program current judicial openings miscellaneous costs judicial district 7 judges and magistrates announcements family law mediation informal family law trial program current judicial openings miscellaneous costs judicial district 8 judges and magistrates announcements family law mediation informal family law trial program current judicial openings miscellaneous costs how judges are assigned to new cases juvenile court juvenile court services stakeholder trainings parent representation approved juvenile cle juvenile filings guidance juvenile justice task force children's justice initiative iowa business specialty court appellate opinions from business court cases select district court rulings and orders court interpreters how to become a qualified court interpreter in iowa find an interpreter information for current court interpreters complaints against a court interpreter court directory appellate courts state court administration state court administration organizational chart access to judicial branch building jury service attorney and litigant resources judicial branch budget information fy 2026 budget fy 2025 budget fy 2027 budget magistrate modernization faq access to justice commission court navigator careers opr about opr attorney disciplinary board board of law examiners commission on unauthorized practice of law client security commission the grievance commission commission on continuing legal education lawyers trust account commission esquire assistance program attorneys admissions admission by examination bar examination registration admission by transferred ube score other admission admission on motion in-house counsel registration international legal consultants pro hac vice applications military spouse and servicemember admission certificate of good standing reinstatements attorney practice annual reporting requirements practice information the attorney disciplinary process trust accounts in iowa pro bono practice pmbr in iowa continuing legal education submission of cle programs by lawyers submission of cle programs by cle sponsors frequently asked questions attorney retirement considering retiring from the practice of law? attorney discipline complaint against a lawyer client security trust fund claims file your annual reports attorney self-assessment form volunteer for boards & commissions certified shorthand reporters board of shorthand reporters how to become a csr information for current shorthand reporters complaints against a csr iolta info for financial institutions iolta grants non-lawyers practicing law for the public iowa court rules court forms pay a fine or court debt scam alert representing yourself child custody child support civil court fees collecting a judgment commitments divorce interactive court forms name change paternity protecting personal information small claims disability accommodation educational resources and services common legal terms iowa courts history civil rights past justices chronological chart oral interviews with past judges iowa county courthouse history videos and brochures judicial selection and retention judicial branch building and courthouse tours request a speaker in the balance podcast reports complaints public records requests search iowa attorneys rfp archive of rfps and rfis watch oral arguments live contact us faq newsroom reporter resources iowa judicial branch collection and distribution of court debt expanded news media coverage judicial branch building media interviews faq district court faq appellate court regional enmc media coordinators news releases main content name change for the public iowa court rules court forms pay a fine or court debt representing yourself child custody child support civil court fees collecting a judgment commitments divorce interactive court forms name change paternity protecting personal information small claims disability accommodation educational resources and services judicial branch building and courthouse tours request a speaker in the balance podcast reports complaints public records requests search iowa attorneys rfp watch oral arguments live contact us home for the public representing yourself name change information on this web page is general in nature. descriptions of laws and court procedures are abbreviated. this information is not intended as legal advice. if you do not understand this information or if you need legal advice you should see an attorney. iowa interactive court form for name changes iowa interactive court forms (iicf) are free, easy-to-use interviews for preparing iowa court forms. to prepare a petition, click here. iowa law overview in iowa, there are procedures established for legally changing a name for an adult or a child. forms are available free of charge on this website. i am an adult; how do i change my name? there are two ways for you to change your name: as part of a divorce case . if you seek a name change as part of a pending divorce, include your request for name change in your petition (if you are petitioner) or in your answer (if you are respondent), and the court can include the change in the final decree. if you are changing your name as part of a divorce proceeding, you can only change your name back to either (1) the name on your birth certificate or (2) the name you had immediately before the marriage. see iowa code section 598.37. name change petition . you can file a petition for change of name in the district court. see iowa code chapter 674. you will need to electronically file the petition for change of name and pay the $195 filing fee. you must file electronically unless you get permission from the court to be excused from electronic filing. you must include the following information in the petition for change of name: your current name your county of residence a description including height, weight, hair and eye color, race, sex, and place and date of birth place of residence(s) for the past five years reason for request a legal description of all real estate in iowa owned or in which you have any legal interest the new name you are requesting to take you must attach a certified copy of your birth certificate to the petition. if your birth certificate is not available, you must explain why it is not available and provide another form of identification. if you are married, the petition must be served on your spouse as well. there may be an additional cost for having the petition served on your spouse. how do i change a minor child s name? the procedure for minor children is similar to the process for adults. there are two ways to change a minor child s name. as part of a divorce case or custody case . if there is a pending divorce or custody action, the name change of a minor child can be part of the divorce or custody proceeding. include your request for name change in your petition (if you are the petitioner) or response (if you are the respondent), and the court can include the change in the final decree. see iowa code section 598.37. as part of an adult name change petition. the name change of one or more minor children can be part of the name change proceeding. include your request for a name change in your petition. you will need to include the information listed under the name change petition below for each child. name change petition . you will need to electronically file the petition for change of name of minor child and pay the $195 filing fee. you must file electronically unless you get permission from the court to file in paper. you must include the following information in the petition for change of name of minor child: the child s current name the child s county of residence your name and relationship to the child a description of the child including height, weight, hair and eye color, race, sex, and place and date of birth place of residence(s) for the past five years reason for request the new name you are requesting for the minor child you must attach a certified copy of the minor child s birth certificate to the petition. if the child s birth certificate is not available, you must explain why it is not available and provide another form of identification. if the child is under fourteen , both parents stated on the birth certificate must file their consent to the name change. if one parent does not consent to the name change, the court will set a hearing. at the hearing, the court may waive the need for consent from both parents if the court finds one of the following: that the parent has abandoned the child that the parent has been ordered to contribute to the support of the child or to financially aid in the child s birth and has failed to do so without good cause that the parent does not object to the name change after having been given due and proper notice if the child is fourteen or older, the petition must include the child s written consent to the name change. after the order is issued, will the name change be reflected on my birth certificate/the birth certificate of my children? when the court grants a change of name, the clerk of court will provide a certified copy of the decree of name change to you, and the clerk will also mail an abstract of the decree to be filed with the iowa department of health, requiring the change of name to be made on the birth certificate. see iowa code chapter 674. follow us county court directory privacy policy site tools accessibility sitemap 2026 iowa judicial branch. all rights reserved. follow us web development by global reach 2026 iowa judicial branch. all rights reserved.