faqs - civicplus.cms.faq skip to main content create a website account - manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more. website sign in search i m looking for... jobs kdhe from a to z measles programs services home faq all categories bureau of air - compliance enforcement bureau of air - emissions inventory kansas environmental information management system (keims) bureau of air - monitoring planning bureau of air - air operating permit bureau of air - air construction permit child care licensing complaint process residential lead hazard prevention - renovation, repair painting (rrp) plan review permitting chemical contaminants lead copper rule revised total coliform rule radiological sampling stage 2 disinfection by-products rule surface water treatment rule bureau of health promotion - early detection works pandemic influenza vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults newborn hearing screening - testing process newborn hearing screening - hearing rescreens newborn hearing screening - proceso de la prueba newborn hearing screening - pruebas de audici n adicionales water bacteriology breath alcohol laboratory program trauma program vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for minors vital statistics - how to amend divorce certificates vital statistics - how to amend marriage certificates health risks associated with harmful algal blooms (habs) kdhes habs response program pediatric readiness recognition info for private waterbody owners pregnancy risk assessment monitoring system nw mineralization study - water well testing outside the study area nw mineralization study - study area map acute flaccid myelitis sw mineralization study - study area map report novel coronavirus measles (rubeola) interim enhanced lt 1 eswtr bacteriological sampling public notification public water supply general consumer confidence report bureau of health promotion - brfss sti / hiv newborn screening general screening newborn screening blood spot screening newborn screening hearing screening newborn screening pulse oximetry screening measles avian influenza newborn screening - special health care needs kansas wic 2025 federal government shutdown frequently asked questions vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults 17 all content can i amend my birth certificate to align with my gender identity? no, in accordance with the new law, the kansas department of health and environment (kdhe) can no longer process gender identity amendments to kansas birth certificates. however, amendments due to other reasons, like input error or medical cause, are still permissible. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults if kdhe previously changed my birth certificate to align with my gender identity, is that birth certificate still valid? no, if kdhe previously changed your birth certificate to align with your gender identity, senate bill 244 directs the kansas department of health and environment office of vital statistics to invalidate and amend the birth certificate to reflect the individual s sex at birth as defined in k.s.a. 77-207. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults if i have a birth certificate that was changed to align with my gender identity, what action should i take? kdhe is taking the action necessary to invalidate impacted birth certificates in the office of vital statistics database. if you wish to have a birth certificate that matches the information in the vital statistics database that conforms with the requirements of sb 244, you may choose to request one. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults my name is misspelled/wrong on the birth certificate. how do i fix it? if your first, middle, or last name is misspelled, not changing, you will need to provide our office with an original or certified copy of one document dated before your tenth birthday that shows your name as it should appear on your birth certificate. we also need a notarized request stating what you are wanting our office to amend on your birth certificate. use the amendment request form (pdf) . if your first, middle, or last name is changing you would need to obtain a court order legal name change. once you have obtained that court order you would then need to mail the certified order our office along with a cover letter. the cover letter needs to include your name at birth, date of birth, and what you are wanting our office to do. with regard to the required documentation, we suggest certified copies of any of the following: early school record (may be obtained from the office of register of deeds in the county where you attended school) hospital or medical record immunization record census record (school, state, or federal) a newspaper announcement of the birth from the kansas state historical society in topeka, kansas vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults does the affected person get notification that a change has occurred? no, kdhe is unable to proactively notify individuals if their birth certificate is required to be amended under sb 244 because birth certificate records do not contain up to date contact information. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults does the department mail them a copy of the revised birth certificate? no, a certificate would need to be ordered by the impacted individual because birth certificate records do not contain current mailing address. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults will kdhe require the folks whose birth certificates are amended to pay a fee? if an impacted individual requests a new birth certificate be sent to them, a $20 fee per certificate will apply. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults will kdhe refund any fees paid when the amendment to the sex was completed? no, kdhe was following the regulations at the time, which included the cost of filing the amendment. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults my birth date is wrong. how do i fix my date of birth? you will need to provide our office with an original or certified copy of two documents dated before your tenth birthday which show your correct date of birth. we also need a notarized request stating what you are wanting to amend on your birth certificate. use the amendment request form (pdf) . with regard to the required documentation, we suggest certified copies of any of the following: early school record (may be obtained from the office of register of deeds in the county where you attended school) hospital or medical record immunization record census record (school, state, or federal) a newspaper announcement of the birth from the kansas state historical society in topeka, kansas vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults my first and/or middle names are missing. how do i add my first and/or middle name? if your first and/or middle names are missing from your birth certificate, you will need to provide our office with one certified document dated at least five years ago which shows your name as it should appear on your birth certificate. we also need a notarized request stating that you want to amend your birth certificate. use the amendment request form (pdf) . with regard to the required documentation, we suggest certified copies of any of the following: hospital or medical record insurance policy marriage license school record or diploma service record your child s birth record vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults my last or entire name is missing. how do i add my last or entire name? if your last or entire name is missing from your birth certificate, you will need to provide our office with two certified or original documents dated at least five years ago that shows your name how it should be listed on your birth certificate. we also need a notarized request stating that you want to amend your birth certificate. use the amendment request form (pdf) . with regard to the required documentation, we suggest certified copies of any of the following: hospital or medical record insurance policy marriage license school record or diploma service record your child s birth record vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults my first and middle name are switched around. how do i fix this? to switch your first and middle name around on your birth certificate, you will need to provide our office with one certified document dated at least five years ago which shows your name as it should appear on your birth certificate. we also need a notarized request stating that you want to amend your birth certificate. use the amendment request form (pdf) . with regard to the required documentation, we suggest certified copies of any of the following: hospital or medical record insurance policy marriage license school record or diploma service record your child s birth record vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults i have had a legal name change. how do i fix my birth certificate? if you have had a name change that would change your name on your birth certificate, then you will need to provide our office with a certified copy of the name change order and a cover letter stating what you want done. use the amendment request form (pdf) . note : you only want to change your name on your birth certificate if your name change is intended to change your birth name. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults i have gotten married; do i need to change my birth certificate? people who get married do not need to change their birth certificates. your birth certificate is to show your birth name (maiden name). your marriage certificate or license is your proof that you have taken your spouse s name. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults my father s name is not listed on birth certificate. how do i list my father s name on the birth certificate? you will need to obtain a court order of paternity to list your father s name on the birth certificate. your mother and father will need to be made a party to the court action. once the court action has been completed, you will need to provide our office with the certified court order. use the amendment request form (pdf) . we will also need additional information on the father: full name date of birth place of birth race highest grade completed social security number (if he has one) note : if your mother was married to someone else other than your natural father while she was pregnant with you (from conception to birth) or if there is another man s name listed on the birth certificate as the father, that man will also need to be made a party to the court action. the court will need to determine that he is not the natural father and terminate his rights to the birth certificate. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults where do i mail my request or documentation? mail everything to: amendment unit office of vital statistics 1000 sw jackson suite 120 topeka, ks 66612-2221 vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults what is the cost to amend my certificate? are there any fees? the fee to amend a birth certificate is $20. this does not include the charge for a certified copy. vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults vital statistics - how to amend birth certificates for adults 17 can i amend my birth certificate to align with my gender identity? if kdhe previously changed my birth certificate to align with my gender identity, is that birth certificate still valid? if i have a birth certificate that was changed to align with my gender identity, what action should i take? my name is misspelled/wrong on the birth certificate. how do i fix it? does the affected person get notification that a change has occurred? does the department mail them a copy of the revised birth certificate? will kdhe require the folks whose birth certificates are amended to pay a fee? will kdhe refund any fees paid when the amendment to the sex was completed? my birth date is wrong. how do i fix my date of birth? my first and/or middle names are missing. how do i add my first and/or middle name? my last or entire name is missing. how do i add my last or entire name? my first and middle name are switched around. how do i fix this? i have had a legal name change. how do i fix my birth certificate? i have gotten married; do i need to change my birth certificate? my father s name is not listed on birth certificate. how do i list my father s name on the birth certificate? where do i mail my request or documentation? what is the cost to amend my certificate? are there any fees? kdhe home non-discrimination language access open records privacy notice social media policy public health environment kancare laboratories public notices news to protect and improve the health and environment of all kansans. contact us kansas department of health environment 1000 sw jackson street topeka, ks 66612 email phone: 785-296-1500 division staff directory quick links kansas behavioral risk factor surveillance system (ks brfss) kansas grant management system kansas public health information (kanphix) kdhe application portal (khap) kansas environmental information management system (keims) kansas environmental application portal (keap) /quicklinks.aspx helpful links kdhe home site map accessibility privacy policy non-discrimination policy open records social media policy kansas.gov /quicklinks.aspx loading loading do not show again close arrow left arrow right [] slideshow left arrow slideshow right arrow