kansas department of revenue division of vehicles - i have questions about home about news contact customer service center search dov home licenses/id getting a driver's license driver education renew license real id information commercial driver's license teen driving address change senior drivers kansas credential fee chart gender change knowtodrive driver's license reciprocity titles/tags titling new vehicle title a used vehicle vehicle property tax lookup renew your vehicle print registration renewals personalized plate availability vehicle inspection kansas plate replacement information vehicle recall check suspended license apply for restricted driving privileges drivers license reinstatement payments ignition interlock providers ignition interlock vendor oversite program motor carrier commercial driver's license commercial motor vehicles trucking through kansas dealer licensing online services e-lien address change online drivers license reinstatement payments renew your vehicle registration with ikan truckingks - permits and renewals personalized plate availability print registration renewals q-flow wait line management system driver's education instructor portal driver's license status check order a driving record see all online services here forms contact dov customer service center kdor home page click for menu driver's license frequently asked questions click on a link below to go directly to that section. first-time issuance renewing replacing making changes out-of-state transfer not receiving my credential in the mail first-time issuance what documents do i need to obtain a kansas credential for the first time? you will need proof of lawful presence, proof of social security number, two proofs of kansas residential address, and proof of legal name change if your name is not the same now as shown on your lawful presence document. please visit https://ksrevenue.gov/pdf/de56a.pdf for a detailed list of acceptable documents. my birth certificate was issued by the hospital, can i use that for proof of lawful presence? no, the birth certificate must be certified and issued by vital statistics or equivalent agency from your birth state, a u.s. territory, or the district of columbia. i adopted my child from another country, what can they use to provide proof of lawful presence? depending on your child’s visa classification, uscis will mail to your child either a permanent resident card or a certificate of citizenship and either of those documents will be an acceptable proof of lawful presence. i never received my child’s certificate of citizenship from uscis; how can i obtain that? you may file a form n-565 by visiting https://www.uscis.gov/n-565 , or you may choose to obtain a u.s. passport for your child. please visit www.travel.state.gov for more information. can the written exam be taken from home? the written exam may now be completed from a laptop or desktop computer outside of the driver’s license office by visiting https://ks.knowtodrive.com/ . please note, the online written exam is not compatible with internet explorer. where can i obtain a copy of the handbook to study for my exam? you may visit https://www.ksrevenue.gov/pdf/dlhb.pdf to view or print the online pdf version or you may visit the driver’s license office to purchase a printed version for $2.00. can i register to vote in kansas while at the driver’s license office? yes, you will be asked if you would like to register to vote during issuance. is there a minimum age to apply for an identification card? no, an identification card may be obtained at any age. do i need an appointment to visit the driver’s license office? appointments are recommended, as they receive priority. please visit https://www.ksrevenue.gov/dovappointmentinfo/ to schedule an appointment. is there an expiration date to my driver’s education completion? yes, those do expire after 2 years. does kansas recognize online driver’s education courses? no, online courses do not meet the requirements for a driver's license in kansas. the only programs that are approved by the kansas for driver’s education purposes are programs offered through a local, accredited school district which have been approved by the kansas department of education. please note: a certificate of completion from an online driver’s education course will not be accepted for licensure. if you are unsure whether or not a program has been approved by the kansas department of education, you may contact the department of education at 785-296-8107 or the kansas division of vehicles at 785-296-3671. why do i have to provide my social security number? during the 2003 legislative session, kansas lawmakers passed a bill, requiring that the social security number must be collected from everyone that applies for a driver’s license or id card. this law became effective july 1, 2003. why do i have to consent to you sending my information to the selective service system? during the 2003 legislative session, kansas lawmakers passed a bill, requiring that we send the selective service system information on all male applicants that are at least 16 years of age, but less than 26. this law became effective july 1, 2003. back to top renewing i currently have a real id license. will i need to bring all those required documents in again? no, at this time you will only need to present those documents once to add real id. this is subject to change at the discretion of homeland security . if i apply to renew my license online at ikan.ks.gov, will i keep my real id status? yes, if you already have a real id license, that will remain. do i need an appointment to visit the driver’s license office? appointments are recommended, as they receive priority. please visit https://www.ksrevenue.gov/dovappointmentinfo/ to schedule an appointment. i am in the military and currently stationed outside of kansas. is there an option to renew by email? yes, please visit https://www.ksrevenue.gov/pdf/demi1.pdf and follow the directions on the attached application to apply for a license renewal. how much will my license renewal cost? since the fees do vary, please visit https://www.ksrevenue.gov/pdf/dmvlicfees.pdf for your exact fee. will i have to take an exam to renew? the vision exam is the only exam required every renewal. my license has been expired over 1 year, will i be required to complete an exam? yes, once your license is expired for 1 year or more, you are required to complete a vision, written, and driving exam. back to top replacing i lost my kansas credential, what documents are needed to replace it? you will need to provide two proofs of identity and a proof of current residential address. please visit https://ksrevenue.gov/pdf/de56a.pdf for a list of acceptable documents. i am temporarily out of state and need a replacement license delivered here, what can i do? if you will be at that address for at least 45 more days, you may follow the directions on the application at https://www.ksrevenue.gov/pdf/demi1.pdf to apply for a replacement. since it can take up to 45 days for a credential to arrive in the mail, please only apply if you will be at that address for 45 days or more to prevent delivery issues. can i renew and replace at the same time? yes, if you are within 1 year of your expiration date, you may renew at the same time. how much does it cost to replace a kansas credential? for a license, the replacement fee is $16.00 and for an id the replacement fee is $12.00. what should i do if i find my old credential after being issued a new one? the new credential will have invalidated the old one, so you will want to either cut the old one in half or tuck it away, so it won’t get confused with your new one. an old license or id may be used as a proof of identity in the future if needed, so we recommend keeping those. do i need an appointment to visit the driver’s license office? appointments are recommended, as they receive priority. please visit https://www.ksrevenue.gov/dovappointmentinfo/ to schedule an appointment. i have a valid id card. when i went in to renew my driver’s license, i was told i had to surrender my id. why? during the 2003 legislative session, kansas lawmakers passed a bill requiring that an individual could hold either a valid kansas driver’s license or a valid kansas id card, but not both. back to top making changes can i add real id at any time, or must i wait until i’m eligible to renew? real id may be added at any time. what documents are needed to change the name on my kansas credential? you will need to provide your kansas credential, proof of legal name change, and proof of current residential address. it is important to note that your name must be updated with the social security administration at least 24 hours prior to updating your kansas credential. how much does it cost to change the name on my credential? for a license, the fee is $16.00 and for an id, the fee is $12.00. please note: the kansas duplicate marriage licenses cannot be accepted. can i update the name on my kansas voter registration while at the driver’s license office? yes, you will be asked if you would like to register or update your voter registration during issuance. can i change my photo at any time? yes, you may visit the driver’s license office with your license and a proof of current residential address to be issued an updated license. how much would it cost to update the photo on my credential? the fee would be $8.00. there was an error on my credential, how can i get that resolved? we apologize for any human errors. please visit the driver’s license office to have those corrected at no additional charge. do i need an appointment to visit the driver’s license office? appointments are recommended, as they receive priority. please visit https://www.ksrevenue.gov/dovappointmentinfo/ to schedule an appointment. how do i add motorcycle to my driver’s license? provide acceptable proof of identity, pass a vision test, motorcycle written test, and a skill test on a motorcycle, or complete an approved motorcycle driver’s education course. for a list of approved schools you may call the kansas department of revenue-driver education at 785-296-4554 or obtain a list on the website at https://www.ksrevenue.gov/pdf/drschoolsmoto.pdf . how do i get a license to operate a motorized bicycle (moped)? provide acceptable proof of identity , pass a vision test and written test. what is the procedure for reporting someone deceased? present the death certificate or the obituary notice in person or by mail to a local driver license office, along with the credential, and the record will be updated accordingly. back to top out-of-state transfer is testing required to transfer my out of state license to kansas? if your out of state license is valid, testing will not be required. if your out of state license is expired, a written and driving exam is required. what documents do i need to transfer my license to kansas? you will need proof of lawful presence, proof of social security number, two proofs of kansas residential address, your out of state license, and proof of legal name change if your name is not the same now as shown on your lawful presence document. please visit https://ksrevenue.gov/pdf/de56a.pdf for a detailed list of acceptable documents. i obtained an out of state license, but my kansas license has not yet expired, do i need to bring in all the out of state transfer required documents? yes. you will need proof of lawful presence, proof of social security number, two proofs of kansas residential address, your out of state license, and proof of legal name change if your name is not the same now as shown on your lawful presence document. please visit https://ksrevenue.gov/pdf/de56a.pdf for a detailed list of acceptable documents. i only have my temporary license from out of state, will that be acceptable? temporary credentials cannot be accepted. you will need to provide a motor vehicle record or clearance letter from your state of issuance to transfer. will my out of state permit transfer? no, testing will be required in the state of kansas. do i need an appointment to visit the driver’s license office? appointments are recommended, as they receive priority. please visit https://www.ksrevenue.gov/dovappointmentinfo/ to schedule an appointment. what can i use to transfer my credential to kansas if i lost my out of state one? you will need to provide a motor vehicle record or clearance letter from your state of issuance. my license is from another country; will that transfer to kansas? kansas does reciprocate with all u.s. territories and taiwan. if your license is from another country, you will be required to complete a vision, written, and driving exam to obtain a kansas license. my out of state license is suspended, will i still be eligible for a kansas license? no, you will not be eligible for a kansas license with any out of state holds. i just moved to kansas from another state. how long do i have to trade my out of state license for a kansas driver’s license? you have 90 days after establishing residency. back to top not receiving my credential in the mail are the credentials mailed out with tracking? at this time, the credentials are not mailed with tracking. how long does it take for a credential to arrive in the mail? while most arrive in 14-20 days, it can take up to 45 days. i moved after applying for my credential, will it be forwarded to my new address? no, the credentials are mailed with “return service requested”, so they will not forward. i moved out of state after applying for my credential, how do i replace that? since you are no longer a kansas resident, you would not be eligible for a kansas credential. however, you may visit https://www.kansas.gov/ssrv-mvr-ltd/ to purchase and print an mvr honored in most states to be used to transfer your kansas license. it’s been 45 days and my credential has not arrived, what do i do now? please visit the driver’s license office with your temporary license and a proof of current residential address to be issued a replacement. will i be charged to replace the credential i never received in the mail? unless there was an error on the address entered in the system, there will be a $16.00 replacement fee. my credential was returned by the post office; can i pick that up? all returned credentials are immediately destroyed to protect the identity of kansas residents. please visit the driver’s license office with two proofs of identity and a proof of current residential address to be issued a replacement. please resolve any issues with the post office prior to applying for a replacement. back to top additional driver’s license questions? please email kdor_dl@ks.gov quick links careers | forms library | policy library | contact us follow us © copyright . kansas dept. of revenue. all rights reserved. terms of service accessibility policy