kansas department of revenue division of vehicles - gender reclassification home about news contact customer service center search dov home licenses/id getting a driver's license driver education renew license real id information commercial driver's license teen driving address change senior drivers kansas credential fee chart gender change knowtodrive driver's license reciprocity titles/tags titling new vehicle title a used vehicle vehicle property tax lookup renew your vehicle print registration renewals personalized plate availability vehicle inspection kansas plate replacement information vehicle recall check suspended license apply for restricted driving privileges drivers license reinstatement payments ignition interlock providers ignition interlock vendor oversite program motor carrier commercial driver's license commercial motor vehicles trucking through kansas dealer licensing online services e-lien address change online drivers license reinstatement payments renew your vehicle registration with ikan truckingks - permits and renewals personalized plate availability print registration renewals q-flow wait line management system driver's education instructor portal driver's license status check order a driving record see all online services here forms contact dov customer service center kdor home page click for menu gender reclassification faqs – driver’s license i’ve already changed my credential. what do i need to do? nothing. if you have already changed your credential, you do not need to do anything further to comply with the law. i have not changed my credential. what do i need to do? pursuant to this new law, if the gender/sex indication on the face of your current credential does not match your sex assigned at birth, you are directed to surrender your current credential to the kansas division of vehicles (dov). upon surrendering the credential, you will be issued a new credential reflecting the gender identification consistent with statutory requirements. you do not need to bring additional materials to receive your new credential. if you have any questions regarding procedures for obtaining a legally compliant credential, please contact the kansas division of vehicles or visit your local driver licensing office. if you have not changed your driver’s license credentials already, you must now do so by close of business march 25, 2026. we do not anticipate any further implementation grace periods being extended in this case. therefore, if you have not already changed your credential over by close of business on march 25, 2026, you will be subject to all applicable penalties if you are stopped by a law enforcement officer after close of business on march 25, 2026. how do kansans know if their credential is impacted by sb 244? kansans impacted by sb244 have or will receive a letter from kdor’s division of vehicles about the need to change their credential. can i check the status of my driver’s license? yes. you can see the status of your driver’s license by utilizing the department’s free driver’s license status check website to determine their authority to drive in kansas. this database is updated in real-time, and the data is provided to law enforcement. the status of your license in this system is the status that law enforcement will see if you are stopped your license is checked. https://www.kdor.ks.gov/apps/dlstatus/login.aspx?returnurl=%2fapps%2fdlstatus%2fsecure%2fdefault.aspx what documentation is needed for someone to change their gender marker in compliance with sb 244 if they currently have a kansas driver’s license? none. no additional documentation is required. kdor’s system indicates when a customer previously requested a gender marker change. do i need to bring anything into the driver’s license office? yes. you will need to bring in your current credential and surrender it to the customer service representative that assists you. upon surrender of your existing license, a temporary license will be issued, and the updated credential will be mailed to you. what if i need to make other changes to my license? if there are other updates being made, like an address change, applicable documentation is necessary. those requirements can be found at https://www.ksrevenue.gov/dovproof.html when will kansans who updated their credentials under sb 244 and are currently using a temporary license receive their permanent license? permanent credentials for individuals who updated their gender marker are already being processed and will arrive within 10–14 days of the transaction date. can you appeal this decision? yes. if you believe your license has been invalidated in error, you may appeal. appeal rights are available under k.s.a. 8-259. however, please be advised that the filing of an appeal will not preserve the validity of your current credential and associated driving authority. for additional information about visiting a dov exam station, please review the following link: https://www.ksrevenue.gov/dovappointmentinfo/ quick links careers | forms library | policy library | contact us follow us © copyright . kansas dept. of revenue. all rights reserved. terms of service accessibility policy