5 ccr 1006-1-5 - amending records or certificates | state regulations | us law | lii / legal information institute please help us improve our site! no thank you skip to main content cornell law school search cornell toggle navigation please help us improve our site! support us! search about lii who we are what we do who pays for this contact us get the law constitution supreme court u.s. code cfr federal rules federal rules of appellate procedure federal rules of civil procedure federal rules of criminal procedure federal rules of evidence federal rules of bankruptcy procedure u.c.c. law by jurisdiction state law uniform laws federal law world law lawyer directory legal encyclopedia business law constitutional law criminal law family law employment law money and finances more... help out give sponsor advertise create promote join lawyer directory lii state regulations colorado administrative code department 1000 - department of public health and environment 1006 - center for health and environmental data (1006, 1009 series) 5 ccr 1006-1 - vital statistics 5 ccr 1006-1-5 - amending records or certificates 5 ccr 1006-1-5 - amending records or certificates state regulations compare section 5.1 general requirements for amending records or certificates (section 25-2-115 , c.r.s.) a. 1. if the registrant is less than 18 years of age, an application to amend a birth record may be made by the following: a. one of the registrant's parents, b. the registrant's legal guardian, c. the individual responsible for filing the registrant's record, d. an attorney acting on behalf of a person authorized under this rule, or e. an agent acting on the registrant's behalf under power of attorney. 2. if the registrant is 18 years of age or over, an application to amend a birth record must be made by one of the following: a. the registrant, b. their attorney, or an agent acting under power of attorney. 3. unless expressly stated elsewhere in this rule, only a funeral director, coroner, physician, local registrar, health facility, next of kin, or legal representative may request to amend a death record. applications to amend the medical certification of cause of death shall be made only by the physician or coroner who signed the medical certification, in which case an amended death record must be filed. no birth record of a deceased registrant shall be amended without a court order. b. unless otherwise provided in these regulations or in the statute, all other amendments to vital records shall be submitted and documented in the form and manner prescribed by the state register. the submission will include: 1. the information needed to identify the record, the incorrect item as it is listed on the certificate; and the correct item as it should appear, and; 2. one or more items of documentary evidence which support the alleged facts and were established at least five years prior to the date of application for amendment or within seven years of the date of the event. c. the state registrar shall evaluate the evidence submitted in support of any amendment. at the discretion of the state registrar, the amendment may be rejected if the validity or adequacy of the documentary evidence is questionable, and the applicant advised of the reasons for the action. d. once an amendment of an item is made on a vital event record, the item shall not be amended again, except upon determination of good cause by the state registrar. e. 1. certificates shall only be amended to the extent necessary to modify the information included in the application or court order. the remainder of the information shown on the original certificate shall remain unchanged. the certificate will be identified as "amended" or "delayed" when required by law. 2. when a registrant's sex designation is amended pursuant to section 5.5, a new certificate is issued. the new certificate will not be marked as amended or otherwise indicate that the gender designation or any name change accompanying the gender designation change occurred. f. judicial review of the action of the state registrar may be had in accordance with the provisions of section 24-4-106 , c.r.s.; provided, however, any action for judicial review shall be commenced within 60 days after the date the state registrar gives written notice of a decision. section 5.2 new certificates of birth to amend parentage (section 25-2-113 , c.r.s.) a. a new certificate of birth may be issued as to any person born in this state upon receipt of: 1. a request from an individual or, in the case of an individual under the age of eighteen, a request from parent, legal guardian or legal custodian and: a. a certified copy of a court order issued pursuant to section 25-2-113 , c.r.s., or b. a certified copy of a court report or order concerning the adoption or parentage of such a person from a court of competent jurisdiction outside this state. if the surname of the child is not established in the court order, the request for a new certificate shall specify the surname to be placed on the record. 2. a request from a birth mother and second parent who marry after the birth of a child, a certificate of marriage, and a sworn and notarized statement of parentage signed by the birth parents. if the existing certificate includes the names of both parents, a new record may only be prepared when a determination of parentage is made by a court of competent jurisdiction. an order of divorce that does not include a determination of parentage cannot be used to establish parentage. 3. a request from a birth mother and a second parent if, upon review of the original birth record, the state registrar determines that the second parent's name may be added pursuant to section 25-2-112(3) , c.r.s. the surname of the child may be specified as part of the acknowledgement of parentage process. b. a new certificate of birth will not be prepared for an adoption if the court that has ordered the adoption, an adoptive parent, or the adopted person requests that no new certificate be prepared. c. in addition to the requirements of section 5.1, the requesting party shall provide the information necessary to locate the existing record and such other information necessary to complete the certificate, such as: 1. the name of the child; 2. the date and place of birth as transcribed from the original record; 3. the names and personal particulars of the adoptive parents or of the parents listed on the original birth record, whichever is appropriate; 4. the birth number assigned to the original birth record; 5. the original filing date. section 5.3 amendment of minor errors on birth records within the first year (section 25-2-115(1) , c.r.s.) the state registrar may amend obvious errors, omissions, or transposition of letters in words of common knowledge within the first year after the date of birth at the state registrar's discretion, or upon request of a person with a direct and tangible interest in the record as defined in section 2.1.d. such additions or minor amendments shall be accompanied by a notation of the source of the information, the date of amendment, and the initials of the state registrar making the change, but the notation shall not become a part of any certificate issued. the certificate shall not be marked "amended." section 5.4 amendment of registrant's name(s) in birth records (section 25-2-115(1) , c.r.s.) a. until the registrant's first birthday, given names may be amended upon written request of: 1. both parents, 2. the mother, when no second parent is listed, 3. the father, in the case of the death or incapacity of the mother, 4. the mother, in the case of the death or incapacity of the father, 5. the legal guardian or legal custodian of the registrant, or 6. a parent, in the absence of a second parent. b. after one year from the date of birth, if the name was entered incorrectly in the birth record, the provisions of section 5.2 must be followed to amend a given name. c. to change a given name after one year, a legal change of name order must be submitted from a court of competent jurisdiction. section 5.5 amendment of sex designation (section 25-2-113.8 , c.r.s.) before changing the sex designation in the birth record, the state registrar must: a. confirm the registrant is eighteen years of age or older, or an emancipated minor, or, if the registrant is under the age of eighteen, the person requesting the amendment is a parent on the birth record, a legal guardian, or legal representative. b. confirm the name in the birth record and the name of the individual for whom the amendment is requested match, or can be linked through the submitted documentation in instances such as where the registrant is changing their name and sex designation at the same time, and c. a request for a change in the sex designation in a birth record shall include: 1. a certified copy of an order of a court of competent jurisdiction changing the sex of the applicant, or 2. each of the following, as applicable: a. a written request from the person, or if the person is a minor, from the person's parent, legal guardian, or legal representative, signed under penalty of law, to issue a new birth certificate with a gender designation that differs from the sex designated on the person's original birth certificate; and, b. a statement, in a form or format designated by the state registrar, from the person or if the person is a minor, from the person's parent, legal guardian or legal representative, signed under penalty of law, confirming the sex designation on the person's birth certificate does not align with the person's gender identity; and, c. if the person is a minor under the age of eighteen, a statement, in a form or format designated by the state registrar, signed under penalty of law, from a professional medical or mental health care provider licensed in good standing in colorado or an equivalent license in good standing from another jurisdiction, that the sex designation in the birth record does not align with the minor's gender identity. 3. the state registrar shall change the sex designation pursuant to a request made under section 5.5(c)(2) only once during an individual's lifetime. any further amendment to the sex designation in a birth record shall be made only pursuant to a court order in accordance with section 5.5(c)(1). 4. pursuant to section 25-2-113.8(7) , c.r.s., if a new birth certificate is issued pursuant to this section 5.5, and appropriate documentation of the name change is submitted with the request for amendment of sex designation, the certificate will also be amended to reflect any legal name change made prior to or contemporaneously with the change in gender designation. section 5.6 other amendments to any vital event record a. all information of a medical nature may be amended only upon receipt of a signed statement from the person(s) responsible for providing such information. the state registrar may require documentary evidence to substantiate the requested amendment. b. the state register may authorize other amendments not expressly stated herein, when such amendments are authorized by statute, do not conflict with the requirements herein, and can be accomplished in the form and manner necessary to maintain the integrity of the vital event record. notes 5 ccr 1006-1-5 38 cr 15, august 10, 2015 , effective 9/14/2015 42 cr 02, january 25, 2019 , effective 2/14/2019 42 cr 20, october 25, 2019 , effective 1/1/2020 44 cr 23, december 10, 2021 , effective 1/14/2022 47 cr 18, september 25, 2024 , effective 10/15/2024 state regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available. below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release. more comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare. no prior version found. state regulations toolbox accessibility about lii contact us advertise here help terms of use privacy