louisiana laws - louisiana state legislature login sign-up home laws bills sessions house senate committees legislators my legis 2026 regular session other sessions 2026 regular session other sessions house committees senate committees miscellaneous committees scheduled meetings representatives senators caucuses and delegations rs 40:62 " id="ctl00_pagebody_buttonnext" title="view next" /> part ii. birth record after change in sex designation 62. issuance of new birth certificate after anatomical change of sex by surgery a. any person born in louisiana who has sustained sex reassignment or corrective surgery which has changed the anatomical structure of the sex of the individual to that of a sex other than that which appears on the original birth certificate of the individual, may petition a court of competent jurisdiction as provided in this section to obtain a new certificate of birth. b. suits authorized by this section shall be filed contradictorily against the state registrar in the judicial district court having jurisdiction over the parish in which the petitioner resides or over the parish in which the petitioner was born. a nonresident born in louisiana shall file the petition in the parish of birth. the suit of any petitioner born in louisiana shall be filed contradictorily against the state registrar. in the event the petitioner is married, the spouse shall also be a necessary party to the suit. to the extent that the petitioner's name is to be changed, the district attorney shall also be a necessary party. in all cases the petition shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the petitioner's original birth record, in which case the short-form birth certificate card shall not be sufficient. c. the court shall require such proof as it deems necessary to be convinced that the petitioner was properly diagnosed as a transsexual or pseudo-hermaphrodite, that sex reassignment or corrective surgery has been properly performed upon the petitioner, and that as a result of such surgery and subsequent medical treatment the anatomical structure of the sex of the petitioner has been changed to a sex other than that which is stated on the original birth certificate of the petitioner. if the court shall find that the evidence sustains the required proof, the court shall render a judgment ordering the issuance of a new birth certificate changing the sex designated thereon from that shown upon the petitioner's original certificate of birth. the petitioner may in the same suit seek to have the name of the petitioner changed, and the court may render judgment in accordance with law upon this additional petition at the same time. d.(1) a certified copy of the petition and judgment for a new certificate pursuant to this section shall be furnished to the state registrar of vital records at new orleans within ten days after the judgment is rendered. the registrar shall issue to the petitioner a new certificate or certified copy thereof; whereupon the original birth certificate and the copy of the petition and judgment received by the registrar shall be sealed in a package and filed in the archives of the vital records registry. (2) this sealed package shall be opened only upon demand of the individual to whom the new certificate was issued, and then only by order of the court which rendered the judgment ordering the issuance of the new certificate. acts 1979, no. 776, 1; acts 1986, no. 876, 1. if you experience any technical difficulties navigating this website, contact the webmaster. p.o. box 94062 (900 north third street) baton rouge, louisiana 70804-9062