how do i file a change of name for an adult? | mass.gov an official website of the commonwealth of massachusetts here's how you know official websites use .mass.gov a .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in massachusetts. secure websites use https certificate a lock icon ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the official website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. skip to main content mass.gov menu close menu access to search language select language afrikaans albanian - shqip amharic - አማርኛ arabic - العربية armenian - հայերեն chinese (simplified) - 简体中文 chinese (traditional) - 繁體中文 english filipino french - français german - deutsch greek - ελληνικά gujarati - ગુજરાતી haitian creole - kreyòl ayisyen hebrew - עברית hindi - हिन्दी hmong - hmoob italian - italiano japanese - 日本語 khmer - ភាសាខ្មែរ kinyarwanda korean - 한국어 lao - ລາວ malayalam - മലയാളം myanmar (burmese) - မြန်မာ nepali - नेपाली pashto - پښتو persian - فارسی polish - polski portuguese (brazil) - português romanian - română russian - русский somali - soomaali spanish - español swahili - kiswahili tamil - தமிழ் telugu - తెలుగు thai - ไทย tigrinya - ትግርኛ turkish - türkçe ukrainian - українська urdu - اردو vietnamese - tiếng việt disclaimer: this feature uses the google translate widget. due to the limitation of machine translation, some pages or content may not be translated accurately. translate show original state organizations mass.gov search terms search living health social services families children housing property transportation legal justice public safety energy climate action environment taxes unclaimed property vital public records voting working doing business in massachusetts professional licenses permits unemployment finding a job taxes workers rights safety industry regulations for state employees learning early childhood education care elementary secondary schools higher education continuing education for educators administrators visiting exploring parks recreation fishing hunting historic sites arts family fun travel options seasonal activities your government executive constitutionals independents legislative judicial cities towns state offices courts a-z language select language afrikaans albanian - shqip amharic - አማርኛ arabic - العربية armenian - հայերեն chinese (simplified) - 简体中文 chinese (traditional) - 繁體中文 english filipino french - français german - deutsch greek - ελληνικά gujarati - ગુજરાતી haitian creole - kreyòl ayisyen hebrew - עברית hindi - हिन्दी hmong - hmoob italian - italiano japanese - 日本語 khmer - ភាសាខ្មែរ kinyarwanda korean - 한국어 lao - ລາວ malayalam - മലയാളം myanmar (burmese) - မြန်မာ nepali - नेपाली pashto - پښتو persian - فارسی polish - polski portuguese (brazil) - português romanian - română russian - русский somali - soomaali spanish - español swahili - kiswahili tamil - தமிழ் telugu - తెలుగు thai - ไทย tigrinya - ትግርኛ turkish - türkçe ukrainian - українська urdu - اردو vietnamese - tiếng việt disclaimer: this feature uses the google translate widget. due to the limitation of machine translation, some pages or content may not be translated accurately. translate show original state organizations mass.gov search terms search search in probate and family court search in executive office of the trial court search in massachusetts court system search legal justice courts self-help name changes how do i file a change of name for an adult? … this page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. some page levels are currently hidden. use this button to show and access all levels. this page, how do i file a change of name for an adult?, is offered by probate and family court massachusetts court system show more how do i file a change of name for an adult? you can file for a name change in massachusetts if you are 18 years or older and want to legally change your name. find out how to change your name and what paperwork you ll need to file. skip table of contents table of contents table of contents + table of contents hide table of contents × show more table of contents top table of contents you skipped the table of contents section. when you don t need to file a name change in court there are three situations when you don't have to file in court and pay a fee just to change your name: when you get married. see getting married in massachusetts for more information. when you get divorced . if you're getting divorced and want to resume a name you have legally had in the past, you can ask to resume this former name in your complaint for divorce (cjd-101) , joint petition for divorce form (pursuant to g.l. c. 208, § 1a) (cjd-101a) , or counterclaim for divorce (cjd-202) . you can't change a child’s name through a divorce. when you become a naturalized citizen . if you're in the process of becoming a naturalized u.s. citizen, you can request a name change from the federal government through this process. when you do need to file a name change with the court follow the steps on this page when you do need a court ordered name change step 1. prepare all forms and gather documents find the probate and family court in the county where you reside (reside is where you currently live). you will need this information to complete forms. prepare all documents required to file your case by using the checklist of forms and documents found at checklist of forms: change of name for adult . sign the petition to change of name adult (cjp 27) in the presence of a notary public (an official who is commissioned by the state to witness documents). to sign in the presence of a notary, you are required to provide photo identification. if your photo identification has a name that does not match your legal name, you may use a motion (cjd 400) to ask the court to waive the notarization requirement. what is my legal name? if you were born in the united states if you were born in the united states + in general, a us born person’s legal name is the name shown on his or her u.s. birth certificate (includes hyphens and apostrophes) unless the person’s name has changed based on certain events, such as a marriage or a valid court order for a name change. if you were born outside of the united states if you were born outside of the united states + a foreign-born person’s legal name is the name shown on his or her immigration document (includes hyphens and apostrophes) unless the person’s name has changed based on certain events, such as a marriage or a valid court order for a name change. step 2. file the forms with the court and pay the fee the fee for filing a name change petition is: $150 filing fee + $15 surcharge fee = $165 total filing fee if an order of notice is issued by the court, there is an additional + $15 citation fee. if you are financially unable to pay the fee go to indigency (waiver of court fees) to see if you qualify to have your fees waived. if you qualify, you will need to file your affidavit of indigency with the forms required on the checklist. $165 total filing fee for a name change petition if an entire family seeks a name change or two or more children who have the same legal parents seek a name change, a separate petition must be filed for each person whose name is seeking to be changed, but you will only have to pay one fee for the entire family (unless the filing fee is otherwise waived by the court pursuant to g. l. c. 261). where do i file? you must file the forms at the probate and family court in the county where you currently live . what are my filing options? in-person in-person + bring the forms and documents to the probate and family court that serves the county where you live. you can pay by bank check, money order, or credit card at the courthouse or by mail by mail + mail the forms, documents, and a bank check or money order for the entire fee to the probate and family court in your county or online online + file online (efile) the forms, documents, and pay the fee. the flat fee for efiling and initial case is $22. for more information on efiling your change of name go to probate and family court efiling: change of name . learn more about online step 3. administrative review after you have filed your petition and all required documents, the court will refer your case for a review. the court may allow your change of name without you having to appear at the courthouse or the court may issue an order of notice (cj-p 130) requiring a citation to issue for you to give notice of a citation on petition for change of name (cj-p 28). if your change of name was handled administratively , meaning you did not need to come to the court, you will be mailed a certified decree of change of name , and your case is completed. if you requested your original documents back, these will be included. if you receive an order of notice (cj-p 130) and accompanying citation on petition for change of name (cj-p 28) , meaning public notice and/or notice on interested parties needs to be made, you will need to complete service as outlined in the court order. step 4. types of notice after review, if the court gives you a citation for change of name (cj-p 28) , it will say if public notice and/or notice on interested parties is required as follows: service by certified mail, return receipt requested mail to applicable parties you may be required to notify interested persons or organizations as reflected in the order of notice (cj-p 130). service by publication in the newspaper publish in the newspaper you will be required to publish the top section of the citation in a newspaper that the court lists on page two (2) of the citation. you will need to publish at least seven (7) days before the return date listed on page one (1) of the citation. see the sample citation below. note: if you believe there is a reason why you should not publish the minor’s name change in the newspaper, you may file a motion (cjd 400) asking the court to waive publication. a judge will review your request and allow or deny it. sample citation you need to check what is ordered by the court for service on your citation. if you were asked to give notice to interested parties, they will be checked off below, and notice must be given before 4/1/23 which is 14 days before 4/15/23 , the return day listed on the citation. if you were asked to publish, as shown below, you would contact the nantucket current newspaper and ask that the citation be published before 4/8/23 which is 7 days before 4/15/23, the return day listed on the citation. return day is the deadline for a person to object to the minor’s name change by filing an appearance and objection with the court. step 5. if issued a citation, file the return of service with the court you must file the citation with a completed page three (3), the return of service , with the court showing that you provided the correct notice of your name change. you will be required to file proof that you followed the court’s order. proof of service may include: copy of the posting in the newspaper where the citation was published (must include the date). return receipts for any mailing. example of a return receipt from the post office. what is a return receipt? if you are required to mail your petition and citation to an interested person, you will need to do so by certified and registered mail, return receipt requested. you will need to ask the post office to provide you with the return receipt for the mailing. you will file the return receipt (green card) with the court showing that you completed the mailing correctly. if you were unable to complete the required notifications by mail , you will need to file a motion for alternate service and affidavit of diligent search (cjp 31 ) and military affidavit (tc002) . step 6. what happens next? the court may allow your change of name without you having to appear at the courthouse or you may receive a notice that a hearing will be held. if your name change was handled administratively , meaning you did not have to come to court, you will be mailed a certified decree of change of name, and the case is completed. if you requested your original documents back, these will be included. if you are required to attend a hearing, you will receive a notice in the mail that includes a date, time, and location where you need to appear. bring copies of all documents with you, including any proof of service to the hearing. what do i do if i need more help? find legal help find legal help + learn more about find legal help contact a court service center contact a court service center + learn more about contact a court service center find a list of probate and family court locations find a list of probate and family court locations + learn more about find a list of probate and family court locations more information on name changes g. l. c. 210, § 12-14 uniform probate and family court practice xxxv: change of name actions learn more about name changes information on efiling: efiling in probate and family court change information on your driver's license or id card changing your name on your social security card (pdf) amend a birth certificate following medical intervention for the purpose of sex reassignment contact probate and family court locations + online probate and family court locations related change information on your driver s license or id card changing your name on your social security card (pdf) amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject contact probate and family court locations online probate and family court locations related change information on your driver s license or id card changing your name on your social security card (pdf) amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject help us improve mass.gov with your feedback did you find what you were looking for on this webpage? yes no if you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know. how can we improve the page? * please do not include personal or contact information. you will not get a response the feedback will only be used for improving the website. if you need assistance, please contact the probate and family court . please limit your input to 500 characters. please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. you will not get a response . if you need assistance, please contact the probate and family court . please let us know how we can improve this page. please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. you will not get a response . if you need assistance, please contact the probate and family court . thank you for your website feedback! we will use this information to improve this page. if you need assistance, please contact the probate and family court . if you would like to continue helping us improve mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site. mass.gov state organizations digital accessibility statement privacy policy site policies public records requests 2026 commonwealth of massachusetts. mass.gov is a registered service mark of the commonwealth of massachusetts. feedback term definition definition here.