amend or correct a birth, death, or marriage record | mass.gov an official website of the commonwealth of massachusetts here's how you know official websites use .mass.gov a .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in massachusetts. secure websites use https certificate a lock icon ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the official website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. skip to main content mass.gov menu close menu access to search language select language afrikaans albanian - shqip amharic - አማርኛ arabic - العربية armenian - հայերեն chinese (simplified) - 简体中文 chinese (traditional) - 繁體中文 english filipino french - français german - deutsch greek - ελληνικά gujarati - ગુજરાતી haitian creole - kreyòl ayisyen hebrew - עברית hindi - हिन्दी hmong - hmoob italian - italiano japanese - 日本語 khmer - ភាសាខ្មែរ kinyarwanda korean - 한국어 lao - ລາວ malayalam - മലയാളം myanmar (burmese) - မြန်မာ nepali - नेपाली pashto - پښتو persian - فارسی polish - polski portuguese (brazil) - português romanian - română russian - русский somali - soomaali spanish - español swahili - kiswahili tamil - தமிழ் telugu - తెలుగు thai - ไทย tigrinya - ትግርኛ turkish - türkçe ukrainian - українська urdu - اردو vietnamese - tiếng việt disclaimer: this feature uses the google translate widget. due to the limitation of machine translation, some pages or content may not be translated accurately. translate show original state organizations mass.gov search terms search living health social services families children housing property transportation legal justice public safety energy climate action environment taxes unclaimed property vital public records voting working doing business in massachusetts professional licenses permits unemployment finding a job taxes workers rights safety industry regulations for state employees learning early childhood education care elementary secondary schools higher education continuing education for educators administrators visiting exploring parks recreation fishing hunting historic sites arts family fun travel options seasonal activities your government executive constitutionals independents legislative judicial cities towns state offices courts a-z language select language afrikaans albanian - shqip amharic - አማርኛ arabic - العربية armenian - հայերեն chinese (simplified) - 简体中文 chinese (traditional) - 繁體中文 english filipino french - français german - deutsch greek - ελληνικά gujarati - ગુજરાતી haitian creole - kreyòl ayisyen hebrew - עברית hindi - हिन्दी hmong - hmoob italian - italiano japanese - 日本語 khmer - ភាសាខ្មែរ kinyarwanda korean - 한국어 lao - ລາວ malayalam - മലയാളം myanmar (burmese) - မြန်မာ nepali - नेपाली pashto - پښتو persian - فارسی polish - polski portuguese (brazil) - português romanian - română russian - русский somali - soomaali spanish - español swahili - kiswahili tamil - தமிழ் telugu - తెలుగు thai - ไทย tigrinya - ትግርኛ turkish - türkçe ukrainian - українська urdu - اردو vietnamese - tiếng việt disclaimer: this feature uses the google translate widget. due to the limitation of machine translation, some pages or content may not be translated accurately. translate show original state organizations mass.gov search terms search search in registry of vital records and statistics search in department of public health search in executive office of health and human services search in office of health data, strategy, and innovation search vital public records amending or correcting a record of birth, death, or marriage amend or correct a birth, death, or marriage record … this page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. some page levels are currently hidden. use this button to show and access all levels. this page, amend or correct a birth, death, or marriage record, is offered by registry of vital records and statistics department of public health office of health data, strategy, and innovation show more amend or correct a birth, death, or marriage record is there an error on one of your vital records? do you want to add a father to your child’s birth certificate? is there missing information? you can amend or correct vital records by making an appointment with the registry of vital records. most amendment requests that are received by mail or from a court, such as adoption or adjudication of parentage, will be reviewed and processed within 3-4 months. contacts registry of vital records and statistics phone main call registry of vital records and statistics, main at (617) 740-2600 amendment unit call registry of vital records and statistics, amendment unit at (617) 740-2674 online rvrs general public information: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsgeneralinfo@mass.gov amendments: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsamendments@mass.gov registration inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsregistration@mass.gov general inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrscommunications@mass.gov data and publications: email registry of vital records and statistics at vital.datarequest@mass.gov the details + table of contents what you need fees how to amend more info contact what you need to correct a mistake on a birth, death or marriage record you will need to show evidence that the information was incorrect at or near the time of the event. in most cases, vital records list only what was true at the time of the birth, marriage or death, and updates are not made for changes that happened later. for example, you cannot change your birth record solely for a legal change of name. the process to amend or correct a birth, death or marriage certificate begins at the city or town clerk where the event took place or in a marriage certificates case where the notice of intentions form was completed. when you visit or reach out to the clerk’s office you will want to request information regarding the evidence and paperwork required to have that vital record amended. fees name fee unit amendment fee $50 one-time certified copy of amended record (by mail) $32 per copy certified copy of amended record (in person) $20 per copy how to amend online + email: rvrsamendments@mass.gov by phone + call: (617) 740-2674 by mail + contact the registry by phone or email to see what amendment requests can be processed by mail. you do not need to contact the registry to amend a birth certificate following medical intervention for the purpose of sex reassignment . in person + an appointment is required to complete an amendment in person. constituents can request an appointment by emailing rvrsamendments@mass.gov or by calling (617) 740-2674. more info some exceptions: add or change a parent on a birth certificate you can add or change parent information by: submitting a voluntary acknowledgment of parentage form to add a biological father a voluntary acknowledgment of parentage form is available at the registry or at the city or town where the birth occurred. this form establishes a biological father. if the mother was married at the time of birth to someone other than the biological father, then an affidavit of non-paternity must also be completed by the mother and her spouse. court adjudication of parentage to add a parent or to replace or remove a listed parent an adoption: if a child is born in massachusetts, the massachusetts probate and family courts send evidence of adoption or adjudication of parentage directly to the registry. these changes will process in the order received. a separate application for amendment is not necessary. however, a certified copy of the amended record is not sent automatically. you must request a certified copy of the record after the amendment is complete. contact the registry for more information. amend a birth certificate for sex and name of the subject learn how to amend the sex of the subject on a birth record . amend the name of a parent due to their change in sex designation on a birth certificate learn how to amend a birth certificate if there a parent's change of name due to a change in their sex designation . other exceptions are rare, but include usual situations such as judgments in equity from a court or changing the access status of a record after marriage between parents already listed on a record. contact registry of vital records and statistics + address 150 mount vernon st., 1st floor, dorchester, ma 02125 directions phone main call registry of vital records and statistics, main at (617) 740-2600 amendment unit call registry of vital records and statistics, amendment unit at (617) 740-2674 online rvrs general public information: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsgeneralinfo@mass.gov amendments: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsamendments@mass.gov registration inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsregistration@mass.gov general inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrscommunications@mass.gov data and publications: email registry of vital records and statistics at vital.datarequest@mass.gov related amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject name changes through the probate and family court contacts registry of vital records and statistics phone main call registry of vital records and statistics, main at (617) 740-2600 amendment unit call registry of vital records and statistics, amendment unit at (617) 740-2674 online rvrs general public information: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsgeneralinfo@mass.gov amendments: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsamendments@mass.gov registration inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsregistration@mass.gov general inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrscommunications@mass.gov data and publications: email registry of vital records and statistics at vital.datarequest@mass.gov related amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject name changes through the probate and family court help us improve mass.gov with your feedback did you find what you were looking for on this webpage? yes no if you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know. how can we improve the page? * please do not include personal or contact information. you will not get a response the feedback will only be used for improving the website. if you need assistance, please contact the registry of vital records and statistics . please limit your input to 500 characters. please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. you will not get a response . if you need assistance, please contact the registry of vital records and statistics . please let us know how we can improve this page. please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. you will not get a response . if you need assistance, please contact the registry of vital records and statistics . thank you for your website feedback! we will use this information to improve this page. if you would like to continue helping us improve mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site. mass.gov state organizations digital accessibility statement privacy policy site policies public records requests 2026 commonwealth of massachusetts. mass.gov is a registered service mark of the commonwealth of massachusetts. feedback