amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject | mass.gov an official website of the commonwealth of massachusetts here's how you know official websites use .mass.gov a .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in massachusetts. secure websites use https certificate a lock icon ( ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the official website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. skip to main content mass.gov menu close menu access to search language select language afrikaans albanian - shqip amharic - አማርኛ arabic - العربية armenian - հայերեն chinese (simplified) - 简体中文 chinese (traditional) - 繁體中文 english filipino french - français german - deutsch greek - ελληνικά gujarati - ગુજરાતી haitian creole - kreyòl ayisyen hebrew - עברית hindi - हिन्दी hmong - hmoob italian - italiano japanese - 日本語 khmer - ភាសាខ្មែរ kinyarwanda korean - 한국어 lao - ລາວ malayalam - മലയാളം myanmar (burmese) - မြန်မာ nepali - नेपाली pashto - پښتو persian - فارسی polish - polski portuguese (brazil) - português romanian - română russian - русский somali - soomaali spanish - español swahili - kiswahili tamil - தமிழ் telugu - తెలుగు thai - ไทย tigrinya - ትግርኛ turkish - türkçe ukrainian - українська urdu - اردو vietnamese - tiếng việt disclaimer: this feature uses the google translate widget. due to the limitation of machine translation, some pages or content may not be translated accurately. translate show original state organizations mass.gov search terms search living health social services families children housing property transportation legal justice public safety energy climate action environment taxes unclaimed property vital public records voting working doing business in massachusetts professional licenses permits unemployment finding a job taxes workers rights safety industry regulations for state employees learning early childhood education care elementary secondary schools higher education continuing education for educators administrators visiting exploring parks recreation fishing hunting historic sites arts family fun travel options seasonal activities your government executive constitutionals independents legislative judicial cities towns state offices courts a-z language select language afrikaans albanian - shqip amharic - አማርኛ arabic - العربية armenian - հայերեն chinese (simplified) - 简体中文 chinese (traditional) - 繁體中文 english filipino french - français german - deutsch greek - ελληνικά gujarati - ગુજરાતી haitian creole - kreyòl ayisyen hebrew - עברית hindi - हिन्दी hmong - hmoob italian - italiano japanese - 日本語 khmer - ភាសាខ្មែរ kinyarwanda korean - 한국어 lao - ລາວ malayalam - മലയാളം myanmar (burmese) - မြန်မာ nepali - नेपाली pashto - پښتو persian - فارسی polish - polski portuguese (brazil) - português romanian - română russian - русский somali - soomaali spanish - español swahili - kiswahili tamil - தமிழ் telugu - తెలుగు thai - ไทย tigrinya - ትግርኛ turkish - türkçe ukrainian - українська urdu - اردو vietnamese - tiếng việt disclaimer: this feature uses the google translate widget. due to the limitation of machine translation, some pages or content may not be translated accurately. translate show original state organizations mass.gov search terms search search in registry of vital records and statistics search in department of public health search in office of health data, strategy, and innovation search vital public records amending or correcting a record of birth, death, or marriage amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject … this page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. some page levels are currently hidden. use this button to show and access all levels. this page, amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject, is offered by registry of vital records and statistics office of health data, strategy, and innovation show more amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject you can amend the sex and name on your massachusetts birth certificate with proper evidence. contacts registry of vital records and statistics phone main call registry of vital records and statistics, main at (617) 740-2600 amendment unit call registry of vital records and statistics, amendment unit at (617) 740-2674 online rvrs general public information: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsgeneralinfo@mass.gov amendments: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsamendments@mass.gov registration inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsregistration@mass.gov general inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrscommunications@mass.gov data and publications: email registry of vital records and statistics at vital.datarequest@mass.gov the details + table of contents what you need fees how to amend downloads contact what you need people born in massachusetts will need to file the following evidence to amend a birth certificate for sex of the subject through the registry of vital records statistics (rvrs): an affidavit indicating your sex and name (if applicable) a parent or guardian must complete this form if the record change is for a minor if submitted by mail, the affidavit must be notarized if you also want to change the legal name on your birth certificate: you must get a court-ordered legal name change before the process of changing the sex on your birth record you will need a court-certified copy of your legal name change decree fees name fee unit amendment fee $50 one-time certified copy of amended record (by mail) $32 per copy certified copy of amended record (in person) $20 per copy how to amend by mail + mail completed applicant affidavit with check or money order payable to commonwealth of massachusetts, to: registry of vital records and statistics 150 mt. vernon st. 1st floor dorchester, ma 02125 if you're changing your name, you'll also need to include a certified copy of your judicial change of name decree. refer to the fact sheet for a full guide and information about fees. in person + you can make an appointment with the rvrs by emailing vip-amend@state.ma.us or calling (617) 740-2600. refer to the fact sheet for a full guide and information about fees. amendments may also be made in the city or town where the applicant’s birth occurred. please contact the local city or town clerk, or boston registrar, for more information. downloads open pdf file, 410.58 kb, applicant affidavit for amending sex on a birth certificate (english, pdf 410.58 kb) open docx file, 127.04 kb, applicant affidavit for amending sex on a birth certificate (english, docx 127.04 kb) open pdf file, 512.73 kb, fact sheet for amending sex on a birth record (english, pdf 512.73 kb) open docx file, 68.11 kb, fact sheet for amending sex on a birth record (english, docx 68.11 kb) contact registry of vital records and statistics + address 150 mount vernon st., 1st floor, dorchester, ma 02125 directions phone main call registry of vital records and statistics, main at (617) 740-2600 amendment unit call registry of vital records and statistics, amendment unit at (617) 740-2674 online rvrs general public information: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsgeneralinfo@mass.gov amendments: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsamendments@mass.gov registration inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsregistration@mass.gov general inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrscommunications@mass.gov data and publications: email registry of vital records and statistics at vital.datarequest@mass.gov related contact your local massachusetts probate and family court to learn about legally changing your name contacts registry of vital records and statistics phone main call registry of vital records and statistics, main at (617) 740-2600 amendment unit call registry of vital records and statistics, amendment unit at (617) 740-2674 online rvrs general public information: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsgeneralinfo@mass.gov amendments: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsamendments@mass.gov registration inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrsregistration@mass.gov general inquiries: email registry of vital records and statistics at rvrscommunications@mass.gov data and publications: email registry of vital records and statistics at vital.datarequest@mass.gov related contact your local massachusetts probate and family court to learn about legally changing your name help us improve mass.gov with your feedback did you find what you were looking for on this webpage? yes no if you have any suggestions for the website, please let us know. how can we improve the page? * please do not include personal or contact information. you will not get a response the feedback will only be used for improving the website. if you need assistance, please contact the registry of vital records and statistics . please limit your input to 500 characters. please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. you will not get a response . if you need assistance, please contact the registry of vital records and statistics . please let us know how we can improve this page. please remove any contact information or personal data from your feedback. you will not get a response . if you need assistance, please contact the registry of vital records and statistics . thank you for your website feedback! we will use this information to improve this page. if you would like to continue helping us improve mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site. mass.gov state organizations digital accessibility statement privacy policy site policies public records requests 2026 commonwealth of massachusetts. mass.gov is a registered service mark of the commonwealth of massachusetts. feedback