update name, address or other info on your maryland driver s license | mdot motor vehicle administration skip to main content an official website of the state of maryland. here’s how you know maryland.gov translate official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock ( lock locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. utility navigation contact mva check order status my account (mymva) mdot motor vehicle administration search mdot motor vehicle administration search search maryland.gov search licenses ids see all licenses ids renew a license or id get a new license, permit or id replace a license or id get a maryland mobile id prepare for a driver s license test update name, address or other license info commercial driver s license (cdl) license id fees additional driver id services driver education safety title registration see all title registration title a vehicle request a duplicate title register a vehicle renew registration remove vehicle flags correct a name or address on a title or registration license plates auto insurance requirements vehicle emissions safety inspections fees payment options buying, selling or gifting a vehicle appointments online services see all appointments online services make an appointment visit a branch office or kiosk visit an emissions testing station or kiosk online services accessibility accommodations holidays, closings special hours your mva guide see all your mva guide new maryland residents military service members individuals with disabilities teens new drivers drivers with revoked or suspended licenses medical vision requirements for licenses ignition interlock program families of recently deceased businesses commercial drivers contact mva check order status my account (mymva) maryland.gov home licenses ids update name, address or other license info update name, address or other info on your maryland driver s license holiday closure alert: all mva branch offices and veip stations will be closed on saturday, september 5 and monday, september 7 for labor day. complete 60+ transactions on mymvaonline services – anytime, anywhere. visit our locations page for more info. customer alert: the frederick veip kiosk is currently down. we apologize for any inconvenience. skip sidebar navigation close section menu licenses ids renew a license or id get a new license, permit or id replace a license or id get a maryland mobile id prepare for a driver s license test update name, address or other license info reclassifying a maryland license commercial driver s license (cdl) license id fees additional driver id services driver education safety rules to know if your name has changed , update it with the social security administration (ssa) before visiting the mva. maryland law requires you to report a change of address within 30 days of moving. some changes can be done online. others may require a visit to an mva office. you must notify the maryland mva if your name, address, or other personal information on your driver's license or id card changes. keeping your records up to date ensures the mva can reach you about important notices. name changes update your name with the social security administration update your name with the social security administration at least 72 hours before your mva appointment . visit the ssa's website​ for more information. ssa website gather your documents you'll need: current maryland driver’s license. original or certified document of your legal name change (photocopies are not accepted), such as: marriage certificate, or divorce decree, or court order, or passport with your new name proof of your ssa name change, if possible for a common law name change , you must present a social security card and two additional acceptable documents in the common name you are currently using. the two (2) additional documents (from the list below) must have the name as it is shown on the social security card. tax records selective service card or records voter registration card or records passport a form of identification issued by a government unit that contains a photograph of the applicant baptismal certificate banking records other proof of age and identity that is satisfactory to the mva make an appointment you must update your name in person . make an appointment online and visit an mva branch office to complete your name change. click on the buttons below for non-cdl appointments or schedule a cdl correction appointment. schedule dl (non-cdl) correction appointment schedule id correction appointment your appointment next steps your documents will be reviewed and new photograph taken, if needed. there is a fee for a corrected license or id that shows your new name. bring appropriate payment. see mva fees and payment options. your new license will be mailed to you. check my order status view fees payment options address changes you can change your address: online with your mymva account in-person at an mva self-service kiosk what you'll need to change your address online or at a self-service kiosk, you'll need: your driver’s license or id card number if you have lost your license or id, find your details online through your mymva account or contact us. your date of birth your mva pin or other login info what to expect the mva will send a change of address card to your new address. carry this card with your license or id. if you'd like a new driver's license or id card, you can order one. your new license will be mailed to you within 7 to 10 business days. fees there is no fee for just updating your address if you'd like a new driver’s license or id card with your updated address you'll need to pay a replacement fee. see mva fees and payment options . change address replace license/id with mymva change address with mymva gender designation changes you may update the gender marker on your maryland driver’s license or identification card. no required documentation to change your gender you need an appointment to make a gender change. gender selection options: m (male) f (female) x (unspecified or other) what to expect you'll need to take a new photograph and pay the card replacement fee. (see mva fees and payment options .) if you'd like to change your name or other details, please follow the directions for those on this page. once approved, your new license will be mailed to you within 7 to 10 business days. name change schedule dl correction appointment (non-cdl) schedule id correction appointment schedule cdl correction appointment height, weight other designation changes height and weight updates : this requires an appointment at an mva office. veteran status changes: this requires an appointment at an mva office. visit the military service members section for information on adding a veteran designation. organ donor status: you can update your organ donor status online with your mymva account . frequently asked questions update name, address, or other info faq can i change my gender designation when i renew my license? when renewing, if you want to change your gender, respond “yes” when prompted by the customer agent during the process, then make your selection. the choices will be “m” for male, “f” for female, and “x” for unspecified or other. you will be prompted to certify that the gender selected is your choice. does a parent or guardian need to approve my gender choice if i am under 18? if a person under 18 years old is applying for a driver’s license, id card, learner’s permit, or moped operator’s permit, and wants to indicate a gender other than that shown on the birth certificate, the parent or guardian signature is required to approve the choice. if the parent or guardian does not sign the application, the product will not be issued. can i change my gender on mymva online services or mva kiosk? no, you will only be able to change your gender in person at an mva branch office. you can make a driver's license/id correction appointment online with mymva. can i change the gender designation on my license more than once? yes, you can change your gender designation as many times as you need. keep in mind that a corrected driver's license fee applies each time. i want to change my gender from what is on my birth certificate. will i need to get the birth certificate changed first? no, you will not need to have the gender on your birth certificate changed in order to change the gender on your driver’s license. if i already changed my name on my passport, do i still need name change documents? if you have a valid u.s. passport with your new name, you are not required to present additional name change documents. how much does it cost to change information on my driver's license or id? it depends on the change: corrected license or id (such as a name or gender change): a fee applies. see mva fees and payment options . address change without a new card : no fee. you will be mailed an address card to carry with your license. veteran designation change : no fee. i need to renew my driver's license or id. can i update my information when i renew? yes. here's what to know: name change : you must renew in person. address update or organ donor designation change : you can update these during your renewal. my driver's license or id is expired. how do i update my information? you will need to start a new application for a maryland's driver's license or id card. you will need to pass applicable vision, knowledge and driving skills test, and may need to present age, identity, and residency documents. you can start the application with mymva online services. visit the get a maryland driver's license or id card page for more information. questions? we can help. contact us if you have questions or need more information. contact mva mdot motor vehicle administration contact us 6601 ritchie highway n.e. glen burnie, md 21062 contact center: 410-768-7000 maryland relay: 7-1-1 about about the motor vehicle administration locations news one-stop-shop services privacy security pia request driving record information disclaimers motor voter resources accessibility accommodations forms fees payment options driver education safety ignition interlock program investigations compliance information for businesses programs initiatives maryland mobile id program outreach programs maryland s connected and automated vehicle program campaigns explore maryland.gov top benefits and services drivers and motor vehicles food assistance and snap unemployment taxes register to vote visit maryland more maryland benefits more maryland services your government governor wes moore maryland cabinet agencies all state agencies state employee directory for state employees maryland state jobs report state government fraud policies statewide accessibility policy privacy and security policy terms of use stay connected maryland relay: 7-1-1 maryland news emergency alerts travel alerts report a cybersecurity incident report human trafficking key bridge updates 2026 state of maryland. all rights reserved.