north dakota court system - adult name change (18 years old and older) how do i search records pay fines self-help court locations supreme court opinions jury duty lawyer search search north dakota courts search tips home supreme court supreme court docket search opinions watch/listen to court view calendar filing with the supreme court notices c-track data incident committees and boards administrative council board of law examiners disciplinary board joint procedure judicial conduct commission more... get connected subscribe taking the courts to schools publications current justices surrogate judges history of the supreme court appealing a case about us district courts district court case search pay fines jury service court locations district court information district court judges district administration court resources e-filing - resources e-file portal find an attorney court fees court interpreters access to court records court resources (cont.) alternative dispute resolution roster parenting coordinator roster parenting inv/gal roster interest rate on judgments summons by publication other courts municipal courts bismarck fargo grand forks minot williston more... juvenile juvenile court contact juvenile court juvenile programs and services juvenile treatment court contact juvenile treatment court other courts domestic violence court treatment courts office of administrative hearings federal courts tribal courts veterans treatment court legal resources court rules administrative rules appellate procedure civil procedure criminal procedure rules of court more... resources notices legal research law library north dakota administrative code north dakota century code north dakota constitution federal laws and regulations u.s. supreme court opinions legal self help center answering a summons and complaint divorce establishing custody visitation probate an estate small claims more... court administration departments state court administration education family law mediation program finance human resources information technology juvenile court research and planning publications departures from mandatory minimums annual report annual report - juvenile state of the judiciary online resources governor legislature state bar assoc. of n.d. schedule of meetings and events administrative policies personnel policy manual chart - salary grade and class specification pay ranges (07-26) supplement i more... lawyers lawyers attorney search board of law examiners e-filing portal attorney subscription management rural attorney recruitment program judicial conduct commission disciplinary board use of a.i. how do i home legal resources legal self help center adult name change adult name change (18 years old and older) overview of name changes for adults an adult individual may file a written petition (request) with a north dakota state district court to legally change their name. a north dakota state district court may legally change an individual s name if: the individual requesting the name change has resided in their current north dakota county for at least the past 6 months before filing their petition; the individual filing the petition is either a united states citizen, or a united states permanent resident alien; and the request isn t made to defraud or mislead, is made in good faith, won t cause injury to an individual, and won t compromise public safety. before a district court judge may consider the petition to legally change a name, the individual filing the petition must first publish notice of their petition in the newspaper. the notice is published in the north dakota county where they live. the judge may consider the petition 30 days after the date of publication of the notice. (the north dakota newspaper association maintains lists of north dakota daily and weekly newspapers, including a list of official county newspapers.) the district court judge may waive (not require) publication of the notice in the newspaper when: the requested name change is only for the first or middle name; or the individual shows in their request that they are a victim of domestic violence. in-person court hearings aren t required. however, the district court judge may decide an in-person court hearing is necessary. if an in-person court hearing is scheduled, notice of the date, time and location is sent from the office of the clerk of district court. forms and guides for adult name changes north dakota legal self help center forms aren t official court forms and courts aren t required to accept them. there s no guarantee that all judges and courts will accept forms available through the center. use at your own risk. forms aren t available for every legal issue or circumstance. if you don t find a form that suits your circumstances on this website, the form isn t available through the north dakota legal self help center. you may need to create legal documents yourself. the general-use forms in the district court civil action section of this website may be used as a starting point for creating your own legal documents. adult name change forms: instructions notice of name change petition for name change declaration for name change confidential information form order for name change if you prefer to handwrite the forms in black ink, you can print out all of the instructions and forms at once by clicking on the following link: all name change instructions forms (print on one side only) after filing your name change petition, if you re notified by the district court that you must obtain a criminal history records check and/or file an affidavit or declaration relating to objections to your notice of name change, you may find the following form of interest: declaration of petitioner: criminal history records checks and/or objections adult name change informational guides: objection to name change of an adult provides a basic, step-by-step guide for objecting to a requested name change of an adult includes formatting examples of common objection documents doesn t include on-line fillable forms selected statutes (laws) rules following are legal research starting points related to name changes of adults. you may need to conduct additional legal research into your legal issue. see the legal research section of this website. chapter 32-28 of the north dakota century code chapter 14-07.1 of the north dakota century code north dakota rules of civil procedure other resources following are a selection of other resources related to name changes of adults that may be of interest. evidence general use checklists and forms service instructions and forms legal research resources for name changes ( flickertale , september 2020, pages 11-12) if you don t understand any of this information, or if you have trouble filling out any of the forms located here, consult a lawyer . the information provided on and obtained from this site doesn't constitute the official record of the court. this information is provided as a service to the general public. any user of this information is hereby advised that it's being provided "as is". the information provided may be subject to errors or omissions. visitors to this site agree that the court isn't liable for errors or omissions of any of the information provided. if you have a question relating to a case that is already filed please contact the clerk of court for the county. north dakota supreme court 600 e boulevard ave bismarck, nd 58505-0530 district courts municipal courts about us contact us jobs with us privacy statement security policy disclaimer