adult name change | nebraska judicial branch skip to main content quick links menu directories e-services forms self-help contact facebook twitter x linkedin user account menu log in search main navigation home administration rules courts programs services probation menu breadcrumb self-help name change adult name change quick links secondary menu legal resources & information appeals clean slate - criminal record rehabilitation court records criminal estates families & children financial fines & court costs general court forms guardians & conservators limited scope representation medical name change adult name change child name change protection order information renter|landlord small claims traffic workers' compensation court adult name change adult name change each district court has specific local rules that may apply in your case. check with the clerk of the district court in your county. if you fail to follow the local rules, you may not be able to finish your case. introduction the procedure for legally changing your name is somewhat complicated. it is up to you to decide whether and how you use a lawyer in your case. the law allows you to do your own name change, which is also known as proceeding pro se (pronounced “pro-say”). another option is to hire a lawyer to do only part of your case. this is called limited scope representation. to find out more about limited scope representation click on this link , or here http://nefindalawyer.com/ . this packet of forms and instructions is intended for an adult who wishes to change his or her name, and has resided in the county where the petition is to be filed for at least one year before filing the petition. facts about filing for a name change in nebraska any person wishing to change his or her name may file a petition in the district court in the county in which the person resides so long as that person has been a bona fide resident of that county for at least one (1) year before filing the petition for a name change. note: in nebraska, an “adult” is an individual who has attained the age of 19, is a minor who has been emancipated by court order, or is married pursuant to neb. rev. stat. §§ 43-2101 and 42-105 . if you wish to change your name, and you are not 19, emancipated or married you will need your parent or guardian to file for you. you may change your first name, middle name, and/or your last name. there is a cost to file a petition for name change. once you file your petition your case will be assigned a case number. this number must be on all documents filed with the court. you should be aware that there are additional costs associated with providing notice that you intend to change your name (see legal notice below). statute requires a legal notice of your petition for name change must be published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks in the newspaper, which will add cost to the process of your name change. before filing paperwork you should be sure that you have all the money you will need to complete the process. you should call the newspaper and ask the cost of filing a legal notice for two consecutive weeks (costs differ from newspaper to newspaper) and have that money available before you file your petition. in instances where a petitioner may be endangered by the publication of the notice of filing of a petition for a name change, the requirement to publish may be waived by order of the court. neb. rev. stat § 25-21,271(2)(b ) . a petitioner believing, they, or a party for whom they are petitioning would be endangered by publication may request the requirement be waived. if you file a petition for name change without the assistance of an attorney you must complete all the forms necessary. the clerk of the district court cannot assist you in preparing any legal documents, or advise you of the process. forms ​complete list of forms and instructions. to begin the process you must take your completed petition for name change (dc 6:9.1) and the confidential party information - adult name change (dc 6:9.4) , along with the filing fee to the clerk of the district court in the county in which you reside. please refer to the instructions for completing the petition (dc 6:9.1a) and the instructions for completing the confidential party information - adult name change (dc 6:9.4a) for details on how to fill out these two forms. legal notice by publication after filing the petition for name change you must give notice that you are changing your name in a newspaper or obtain an order waiving the requirement to publish. in cases a petitioner is required to publish the notice of filing for a name change, the petitioner will publish in the county where the petition is filed, or in a newspaper in general circulation in that county. before the legal notice can be prepared you will need to set a hearing date. to set a hearing date ask the clerk the name and phone number of the bailiff or other court personnel to contact to schedule the hearing. the hearing should not be scheduled any sooner than approximately six (6) weeks from the time you filed your petition, so as to give you the necessary time to have the legal notice published once a week for two (2) weeks prior to the hearing. once you have a hearing date you should immediately complete the legal notice form (dc 6:9.2) and contact the newspaper to arrange the publication of the legal notice, as well as to have the newspaper provide the court with proof that the legal notice was published at least once a week for two (2) weeks. please refer to the instructions for completing the legal notice for publication (dc 6:9.2a) for details on how to fill out this form. if you wish to request a court waive the requirement to publish the notice of filing of name change, you must complete the petitioner's showing and request for waiver of publication . this should be filed at the same time as the petition for name change. a showing means you need to present evidence in the form of documentation to support your request. note: this form does require hard copy documents supporting the request for the waiver be provided by the petitioner to the court. the clerk’s office will notify you of the judge’s decision in writing (or e-mail if your e-mail address is registered with court). if the judge grants your order, you may proceed without publication and can contact the court to set a hearing date. if the judge denies your request to waive publication, you will need to complete the steps for publication noted above. you will need to mail a copy of the published notice (what was in the newspaper) to the last known address of all people appearing to have a legal interest in this matter. this has to be done within 5 days after the notice has been published in the newspaper for the first time . to tell the court that you mailed these copies, and that you tried to find any other person(s) appearing to have a legal interest in the case, you will complete and file an affidavit of mailing published notice (dc 6:6.8 ) using the instructions for completing the affidavit of mailing published notice (dc 6:6.8a) . this form must be filed with the court within 10 days after you mailed a copy of the newspaper’s published notice to all interested people. the court will not hear your case until this form is filed, so make certain you file it before your hearing. in this form you are swearing under oath that you mailed them. this form must be notarized. court hearing on name change prior to the hearing date set for the case you must prepare the decree of name change (dc 6:9.3) using the instructions for completing the decree of name change (dc 6:9.3a) as well as prepare your testimony for the hearing. you will want to bring two copies of the decree of name change to your hearing. the judge will keep an original with his or her signature for the court file and will give you a copy for your records. prior to the hearing date you should check with the clerk of the district court to make sure the newspaper has filed an affidavit saying the legal notice was published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks. you must attend the hearing and testify under oath about the issues raised in the petition for name change. the issues raised are covered in the instructions for your adult name change hearing (dc 6:9a) . once the court has granted your request for a name change and signed the decree of name change you will need to obtain a certified copy of the decree of name change from the clerk of the district court. once you have received a certified copy of the decree, you may use that certified copy to change your records with the department of motor vehicles as well as the social security administration. social media facebook twitter linkedin general links accessibility statement ada accommodations contact aocp research request subscribe to alerts contracting opportunities employment privacy policy information for: branch overview attorneys public media publications the state of nebraska judicial branch the constitution of the state of nebraska distributes the judicial power of the state among the supreme court, court of appeals, ­district courts, and county courts. all state courts operate under the administrative direction of the supreme court. in addition to the courts created by the constitution, the nebraska judicial system has two other courts – the separate juvenile courts located in douglas, lancaster, and sarpy counties, and a statewide workers’ compensation court. 2026 nebraska judicial branch | website design & development by unanimous home administration nebraska court scam alert branch overview news and media information media releases exhibit list for judicial resources commission hearing news credential application credentialed media media coordinators reporters guide to nebraska trial court procedures nebraska court coverage guidelines for judges, attorneys, and journalists three judge panel in a nebraska capital murder case reference sheet memo to editors and news directors regarding public comment by judges nebraska state court appearances involving inmates replacing a judge in the nebraska trial court system how to report on nebraska’s trial courts pop-up student journalist class commemoration of the supreme court decision in nebraska press association v. stuart – 1976 the responsibilities of judgeship student journalist materials for reporting education session: nebraska’s appellate level court committees commissions access to justice commission committees improvement of justice - committees judges | employee associations judges | staff | mediation committees judicial nominating commissions judicial nominating commissioner s manual lawyer committees professional ethics interpreter ethics probation code of ethics professional ethics for mediators attorney discipline ethics counsel for discipline how to file an attorney grievance attorney sanctions lawyer ethics opinions judicial discipline ethics how to file a judicial complaint nebraska judicial discipline archive judicial ethics committee opinions state library catalog search online legal resources judicial branch awards distinguished judge awards everyday heroes judicial branch recognition program evaluation criteria nomination procedure prior recipients recognition committee attorneys nebraska lawyers assistance program attorney services division admission to the practice of law admissions: general instructions (faqs) application for admission by examination application for admission on motion deadlines and fees re-application for admission by exam annual licensure counsel for discipline guardians ad litem information mandatory continuing legal education judicial vacancies and judicial nominating commission information judicial vacancy application package approved financial institutions search nebraska licensed attorneys unauthorized practice of law publications reports publications reports archive public glossary guardianship and conservatorship information guardianship | conservatorship faq jury service marriage ceremony compilation marriage ceremony 1 marriage ceremony 2 marriage ceremony 3a marriage ceremony 3b marriage ceremony 4 marriage ceremony 5a marriage ceremony 5b marriage ceremony 6 voters’ guide to nebraska’s judicial retention elections 2026 judicial retention election self-represented litigant resources appeals resources appealing a workers compensation court decision to the court of appeals appealing to supreme court or court of appeals appealing|setting aside a county court civil or small claims judgment handgun certificate denial|revocation appeal divorce - no children - updated format name change adult - updated format name change - adult protection order - domestic violence protection order - harassment filing a small claims case protection order - sexual assault small claims court defendents nebraska judicial electronic exhibits system rules rule amendments external court rules personnel and miscellaneous rules administrative policies schedules judgment interest rate filing fees and court costs court records search policy for nebraska courts media information and court coverage protocol records retention disposition schedules temporary appointment of county judges policy nebraska domestic abuse protection order policy parenting act fund policy courts appellate courts offices clerk of the supreme court and court of appeals daily minutes reporter of decisions office appellate court call calendar supreme court supreme court justices supreme court call supreme court proposed call supreme court opinions traveling oral arguments: outreach ceremonial sessions session livestream oral argument archive court of appeals court of appeals judges court of appeals call court of appeals proposed call court of appeals opinions college campus initiative: outreach ceremonial sessions oral argument archive district court calendar search clerks contact information court reporters district court judges administrative orders and policies - district court separate juvenile courts court contacts separate juvenile court judges court reporting personnel administrative orders and policies - separate juvenile courts county court calendar search county court contacts county court judges administrative orders and policies - county court problem-solving courts contacts psc news problem-solving court types adult drug and dui courts family treatment courts juvenile drug courts mental health courts reentry courts veterans treatment courts young adult courts resources workers compensation court district map programs services access to justice commission committee on equity and fairness consortium of tribal, state, and federal courts court user survey judge frankie moore self-represented litigant access and innovation award self-represented litigation committee community engagement and public information court of appeals’ college campus initiative events and celebrations nebraska probation week nebraska problem-solving court month nebraska trial court week history of the nebraska judicial branch national adoption day social media speakers bureau supreme court high school law school argument sessions teacher student resources education judicial branch education court improvement project cip publications what now? child welfare guide what now? juvenile justice guide supreme court commission on children in the courts subcommittees through the eyes of the child initiative teams education and events information for youth and families information for professionals and stakeholders cross-over youth and status offenders caselaw updates about resources archived cip newsletters bench cards data research other resources and websites videos trainings office of the public guardian court appointment process faq guardian and conservator education internships, externships, and volunteer programs resources for private guardians and conservators aging adult covid-19 resources child family contact someone in your area developmental disabilities financial resources frequently asked questions for guardians and conservators mental health webinars waiting list ward memorials opg - blog language access interpreter certification pathway interpreter resources standard operating procedures statewide register of interpreters mediation restorative justice find a mediator mediator portal odr events mediation centers mediating a parenting plan parenting education classes restorative justice odr documents resources parenting act mediator information frequently asked questions probation adult probation services division adult field services emerging adult pilot program resources services juvenile probation services division jjsen case management crossover youth practice model funding intake juvenile detention alternatives initiative (jdai) juvenile justice home-based initiative out-of-home placement pre-adjudication investigation rise reentry 2026 artwork contest rehabilitative services resources service definitions - adult service definitions - juvenile services standardized model interstate compact | interdistrict transfer registered service providers registered service providers by district chief probation officers probation policy forms district map directories supreme court justices court of appeals judges district court judges district court contacts county court judges county court contacts separate juvenile court judges separate juvenile court contacts workers compensation court judges chief probation officers interpreters media coordinators mediators problem-solving court court reporting personnel district map district 1 district 2 district 3 district 4 district 5 district 6 district 7 district 8 district 9 district 10 district 11 district 12 e-services appellate courts online library case information court calendar search efiling epayments forms self-help legal resources information glossary appeals appealing or setting aside a county court civil or small claims judgment appealing to supreme court|court of appeals appealing a workers compensation decision to the court of appeals handgun certificate denial or revocation appeal clean slate - criminal record rehabilitation eligibility questionnaire adult record sealing juvenile record sealing set-aside of a criminal conviction pardons court records criminal history report obtaining a copy of your court record that has been sealed request to open adoption records for adoption decree or medical records online court case search records that are no longer available request for a typed transcript of a trial or proceeding county court district court criminal additional information: felony cases in nebraska additional information: misdemeanor cases in nebraska estates additional information: estates affidavit for transfer of personal property without probate affidavit for transfer of real property without probate claims against estate deposit of will title transfer for the deceased s motor vehicle families children simple divorce - no children simple divorce - with children child support child support termination emancipation enforcement of alimony or property settlement orders enforcement of child support orders enforcement of visitation orders establishment of paternity modification of child support modification of custody or parenting plan temporary delegation of parental powers sibling intervention financial garnishments power of attorney fines court costs requests for payment alternatives where the money goes general court forms filing a motion for continuance of court hearing motion to dismiss waiver and plea of guilty guardians conservators limited scope representation for people wanting limited legal assistance for attorneys medical power of attorney - medical waiver of parental consent for abortion for minors name change adult name change child name change protection order information which protection order do you choose? domestic abuse protection order harassment protection order sexual assault protection order if you have been served with a protection order frequently asked questions renter|landlord landlord renter|tenant small claims filing a small claims case in nebraska appealing or setting aside a small claims judgment collecting your money after a judgment information for judgment debtor small claims glossary traffic additional information: traffic cases in nebraska workers compensation court contact facebook twitter x linkedin