department of health | vital statistics | correcting a vital record skip to content s tate of n ew j ersey d epartment of h ealth governor mikie sherrill lt. governor dr. dale g. caldwell nj home | services a to z | departments/agencies | faqs search select us" x-wt-url="/health/about/index.html"> about us health" x-wt-url="/health/your/index.html"> your health healthcare facilities services health" x-wt-url="/health/public/index.html"> public health chief state medical examiner vital statistics home registration of vital events marriage licenses civil union licenses domestic partnerships stillbirth divorce decrees order a vital record getting copies of genealogical records getting copies of non-genealogical records getting a no record of marriage statement online requests jersey city/hudson county birth records fees at a glance forms for ordering a vital record - english forms for ordering a vital record - spanish correcting a vital record amending sex designation adoption adoptee/birth parent faqs on changes to vital records law domestic adoptions foreign adoptions professional partners registrar training vital information platform forms for obtaining, filing or correcting vital records contact us frequently asked questions acceptable forms of identification home correcting a vital record correcting a vital record amending sex designation changing gender identity effective february 1, 2019, people whose births were registered in new jersey can change their sex designation on their birth certificates to reflect their gender identity. learn more correcting a vital record requests for corrections may be filed with the office of vital statistics and registry using the reg-15 (application to amend a vital record) or the local registrar in the municipality where the event occurred, or in the case of marriage or civil union license, in the municipality where the license was issued. requests for corrections must be supported by verifiable documentation. requirements for corrections vary based on the type of correction being filed. please select from the correction types listed below to view the specific requirements. all forms identified are available at the office of the local registrar. if, after reading the information below, you have further questions, please call 1-866-649-8726 and choose the option 4 for "questions regarding correcting your vital record". please note: the office of vital statistics and registry will not replace previously issued copies once an amendment is completed. legal name changes corrections to the surname on a birth certificate corrections to the first and/or middle name on a birth certificate amending the birth record of a child whose natural parents are not married to each other biological parents who marry after the birth of a child amending the birth record of a child born out-of-wedlock whose mother marries a man other than the natural father changing gender identity legal name changes to amend your name on a birth, marriage, civil union or domestic partnership record, mail the following documents to the address listed below. a letter identifying the vital record to be corrected. identify the name currently reported on the vital record, the exact date and place where the event occurred, and in the case of a birth record, the mother s full maiden name and father s full name, if listed on the vital record. a copy of the original judgment of name change. payment in the amount of $2 to process the legal name change. a certified copy of the certificate can be ordered for $25 for the first copy and $2 for each additional copy of the same certificate. please remit payment in the form of a check or money order made payable to: treasurer, state of new jersey. new jersey office of vital statistics and registration attn: record modification unit po box 370 trenton, nj 08625-0370 top ^ corrections to the surname on a birth certificate corrections to the spelling of the surname can be made via an amendment application form, available at any vital records office, with acceptable, verifiable documentation. in order to: switch the order of hyphenated or dual surnames; remove a surname from a hyphenated or dual surname; or add a second surname, when the surname to be added is the surname of a parent already listed on the birth certificate correct the spelling of a surname top ^ corrections to the first and/or middle name on a birth certificate changes include the reordering or switching of the child s first and/or middle name(s), or the addition or deletion of a portion of the child s first and/or middle name(s). non-phonetic changes can be requested, and shall be made by submitting to the local or state registrar an amendment application form, available at any vital records office. if requested prior to the child s 7th birthday , the parent(s) or legal custodian(s) can request the change. if requested on or after the child s 7th birthday , the parent(s) or legal custodian(s) or child upon the age of 18, can request the change. the request must be accompanied by acceptable documentary proof established before the 7th birthday of the individual listed on the birth certificate.* supporting documentary proof must be provided. acceptable forms of supporting documentary proof can be one of the following: baptism certificate elementary school entrance records or cumulative school enrollment records (may be obtained from the board of education in the county where the individual first entered school.) immunization or medical records (these records must show the child s full name, date, place of birth and date the child was first seen.) state or federal census records *a submission of supporting documentary proof does not guarantee a change of name will be granted. all requests for a non-legal name change are reviewed completely and applicants are advised if a request for name change will be approved according to policy, procedure and applicable new jersey state statute. applicants may be instructed to petition the court for a legal name change. top ^ amending the birth record of a child whose natural parents are not married to each other in this situation there are many variables, the information below provides guidance on many of these cases. please review the case example that applies to your situation. if the mother is married to someone other than the biological father and the husband is not the child s father, the mother and husband may complete an affidavit of denial of paternity together with the appropriate amendment and certificate of parentage form. if the mother is married to someone other than the biological father and the whereabouts of the husband are unknown and the husband is not the child s father the mother must obtain a court issued order of paternity declaring that the child is not the husband s or a court order naming who the child s father is declared to be. if the mother is not married before the birth of the child but marries later to a man who is not the child s father and wishes to add the biological father to the birth record, she must submit a certified copy of the record of that marriage which indicates the previous marital status of the bride together with the appropriate amendment and certificate of parentage form. if the mother was married at the time of the child s birth but is divorced less than 10 months before or any time after the child is born, supply a certified copy of the complaint part and final judgment of divorce. either court document must indicate that the child is not a child of the marriage. the appropriate amendment and certificate of parentage form must be completed by both biological parents. if the parents of a child are not married to each other and the mother is single and wishes for the child carry the surname of the father or a combination of both parents surnames, and add the father to the child s record, the parents may complete an reg 60 amendment and certificate of parentage form. note: if the child carries the father s surname at the time of birth but the father is not on the original record, the appropriate amendment form to add the father s information is the reg-34, available at any vital records office and certificate of parentage (cop) form. certificate of parentage affidavit of denial of paternity top ^ biological parents who marry after the birth of a child biological parents who marry after the birth of a child may have the birth certificate amended to include the name of the father, even if already on the record, and update the legitimacy status. the parents must provide proof of the marriage. if the marriage occurred within new jersey, provide the date and place of marriage; if the marriage occurred outside of new jersey, provide a full, certified copy of the marriage record that indicates previous marital status of the bride/mother of the child. an reg-34 and certificate of parentage form must be completed by both biological parents. forms can be processed by either the local registrar in the town where the birth occurred or the office of vital statistics and registry. parents may also complete the reg-15 found on our website and mail it directly to the state office. top ^ amending the birth record of a child born out-of-wedlock whose mother marries a man other than the natural father in this situation, only the surname of the child or items concerning the mother may be corrected by filing an reg-15 that can be found online and mailed in or reg-34 prepared by either the local registrar in the municipality where the birth occurred or the office of vital statistics and registry. no information about the stepfather may be added to the record, nor will the child be listed as legitimate. proof of the mother s marriage to the stepfather is required. if the marriage occurred within new jersey, provide the date and place of marriage; if the marriage occurred outside of new jersey, provide a full, certified copy of the marriage record that indicates previous marital status of the bride/mother of the child. top ^ changing gender identity individuals (or parents/guardians in the case of minors) can document gender identity using self-attestation. sex designation on birth and death certificates can now more easily be changed to conform to individual gender identities. forms and additional information are available on the changing gender identity page . top ^ translate translator disclaimer contact us | privacy notice | legal statement | accessibility statement | statewide: nj home | services a to z | departments/agencies | faqs department: njdoh home | tty relay | topic a to z | programs/services | notice of privacy practices copyright state of new jersey, 1996-2013 department of health p. o. box 360 trenton, nj 08625-0360 last reviewed: 8/13/2025