gender designation change your vaccination records get vaccinated measles guidance sign up for e-news! reproductive health nmhealth helpline 988: 24/7 lifeline skip to main content nmhealth helpline (1-833-796-8773) sign up for e-news! 988: 24/7 lifeline menu search home newsroom publications health data contact help get vaccinated your vaccination records reproductive health what we do public health women, infants and children immunization chronic disease prevention family planning infectious disease prevention abortion reproductive health view all epidemiology and response birth and death certificates health data infectious disease epidemiology data modernization injury prevention ems licensing view all scientific laboratory infectious disease testing drinking water testing impaired driving testing dairy testing outbreak/hazardous materials testing view all medical cannabis how to apply qualifying conditions patients caregivers dispensary locations important notices view all facilities nursing home care treatment for substance misuse mental health treatment physical rehabilitation habilitation for intellectual & developmental disabilities view all administrative services strategic planning health equity job opportunities inspection of public records view all are you having trouble finding the page you are looking for? feel free to contact us or use our a to z page to find an alphabetical list of pages and services available on this site. your health women, infants and children what is wic? do i qualify? wic clinic locations wic approved foods grocery stores farmers' market nutrition injury prevention mental health older adult falls opioid safety overdose prevention sexual violence substance abuse suicide prevention infectious disease prevention hiv aids drug-related harm reduction immunization hepatitis sexually transmitted diseases tuberculosis influenza and pneumonia health-care associated infections animal-transmitted disease chronic disease cancer diabetes healthy kids quit tobacco community health workers dental and oral health family health maternal child health children's medical services families first family planning abortion reproductive health environmental health air quality asthma healthy homes occupational health water quality are you having trouble finding the page you are looking for? feel free to contact us or use our a to z page to find an alphabetical list of pages and services available on this site. most popular forms birth certificate application death certificate application medical cannabis patient application medical cannabis personal production application medical cannabis caregiver application immunization exemption form ems license renewal application ems do not resucitate order form pages medical cannabis birth certificates public health offices emergency medical systems women, infants and children ems licensing death certificates behavioral health institute resources healthcare compare health data public accreditation proposed rule changes public records request external resources restaurant and food inspection centennial care health insurance pull together / cyfd aging disability resource center office of the governor new mexico true are you having trouble finding the page you are looking for? feel free to contact us or use our a to z page to find an alphabetical list of pages and services available on this site. locations public health offices our public health clinics are some of the primary ways in which we support the health of all new mexicans. each location has its own hours of operation, and a unique set of services. public health offices administrative offices the new mexico department of health operates several administrative offices around the state that oversee regional and statewide office operations. hours of operation and contact information are provided below. administrative offices all facilities nm behavioral health institute fort bayard medical center new mexico state veterans' home nm rehabilitation center sequoyah adolescent treatment center turquoise lodge hospital los lunas community program facilities by treatment treatment and long term care facilities rehabilitation center chemical dependency adolescent residential treatment centers mental health treatment are you having trouble finding the page you are looking for? feel free to contact us or use our a to z page to find an alphabetical list of pages and services available on this site. about nmhealth divisions epidemiology and response facilities management medical cannabis public health scientific laboratory office of the secretary cabinet secretary blog about nmdoh strategic planning roadmap strategic plan performance improvement program accreditation general information job opportunities request for proposals are you having trouble finding the page you are looking for? feel free to contact us or use our a to z page to find an alphabetical list of pages and services available on this site. a to z home divisions epidemiology and response vital records and health statistics vital records gender designation change more choices menu gender designation change contact information mailing address post office box 26110 santa fe, nm 87502 physical address 2554 camino entrada santa fe, nm 87505 toll free phone 1-866-534-0051 need some help? are you having trouble finding the page you are looking for? feel free to contact us or use our a to z page to find an alphabetical list of pages and services available on this site. gender designation change on a birth certificate on october 29, 2019 senate bill 20 went into effect. under this law, individuals who were born in new mexico and want to change the gender designation or the gender designation of their child on the birth certificate to do so by completing the appropriate request form through the bureau of vital records. the new law will allow for male, female and x as acceptable options. x refers to a gender other than male or female or an, undesignated gender. requirements the person applying for the change will need to complete the appropriate form and if a legal name change is requested, submit a certified copy of the name change. adults (applicant is 18 years of age or older) the request to change gender designation on a birth certificate: adult form must be completed by a person requesting to change the sex designation on their birth certificate. guardians acting on behalf of an adult must include proof of guardianship appointed under chapter 40-10b nmsa . the request to change gender designation on a birth certificate: adult form must be signed in the presence of a notary public. if your full current legal name is different than the full name listed on your birth certificate, you must provide a certified legal name change court order with the form. if you want your full current legal name amended on your birth certificate, indicate by checking the appropriate box on the request form. additional proof documentation might be requested. minors (parents acting on behalf of their minor child) the request to change gender designation on a birth certificate: parent/legal guardian form or the request to change gender designation on a birth certificate: two parent signature form must be completed and signed by a parent(s) or legal guardian on behalf of the minor wanting to change the sex designation on their birth certificate. legal guardians acting on behalf of the minor must include proof of legal guardianship (i.e. certified court order). the two forms are identical except one form allows only one parent to sign and the other allows two parents to sign. if the minor is 14 years old or older, they must sign the request to change gender designation on a birth certificate: 14 years of age or over consent form , agreeing to the amendment of their birth record. if your child is under 18 years old and has not legally changed their given first and middle names, you can submit a certified legal name change court order with your request. if your child s name has been legally changed on their birth certificate, you do not need to provide a certified legal name change court order with this request form. if you do want their full current legal name amended on their birth certificate, indicate by checking the appropriate box on the request form. additional proof documentation might be requested. applicable fees there is a $20.00 fee to make changes to the birth certificate and will include the issuance of a new birth certificate. when applying to change your birth certificate, please complete a birth record search application and include the fee. additional copies of the birth certificate are $10.00 each and can be ordered with the application. make check or money order payable to new mexico vital records. government agencies at this time, we are unsure if other agencies, such as passport, will accept these amended certificates. for those that include change of sex, nothing on the record will indicate a change was made. this will make it difficult to connect the current record with the previous name on other documentation. in some cases, a court order might be needed for full use of the new name and sex designation. quick links home newsroom publications health data contact employment opportunities help locations & contact public health offices administrative offices treatment and long term care facilities crisis treatment emergency hotlines general information report concerns services and programs legal privacy copyright disclaimer accessibility rule changes notice of nondiscrimination inspection of public records