oregon health authority : change a birth record : vital records and certificates : state of oregon skip to main content an official website of the state of oregon learn how you know » (how to identify a oregon.gov website) an official website of the state of oregon » translate this site into other languages toggle main menu main navigation about oha about oha contact oha budget and legislation committees, commissions and workgroups digital accessibility programs and divisions policies public meetings public records request questions and comments rules oregon health forward topics a to z programs and services addiction services crisis lines - get help duii resolution immunizations medicaid medical marijuana program mental health services oregon state hospital oregon educators benefit board (oebb) public employees benefit board (pebb) wic program other program and service related topics oregon health plan oregon health plan home log into your ohp account (opens in new window) do you qualify for ohp? (opens in new window) apply fee schedule for healthcare providers preferred drug list renew benefits other oregon health plan related topics health system reform coordinated care organizations (cco) health analytics data health care cost growth target health information technology hospital reporting oregon health policy board recognized clinics transformation center licenses and certificates birth, death, marriage and divorce records food handler cards health care facility licensing health licensing office residential and outpatient behavioral health other license and certificate related topics public health public health home data and statistics disease and conditions environmental health health licensing office healthy people and families preparedness prevention and wellness provider and partner resources state public health laboratory other public health related topics jobs office of information services working at oregon state hospital search this site submit close back to home vital records and certificates oregon center for health statistics you are here: oregon health authority public health division vital records and certificates change a birth record change a birth record site navigation vital records and certificates frequently asked questions contact us in-person assistance to change vital records is not available . amendment order processing times vary. for more information about what to do if you have submitted an order but have not yet received it click here to return to the main page and select amendment order processing times from the change a record menu. according to oregon law, those wanting to amend an oregon birth record must complete an application, prove their eligibility, and when required, provide evidence documents to support the correction or change to the record. for more information, see ors 432.235 and oar 333-011-0265 . if the birth did not occur in oregon, contact the state where it did occur to amend the record. if you need a copy of a current birth certificate, you can order one from our home page . you will be able to exchange one certificate free of charge (the amendment fee still applies) for an amended certificate within one year of issuance date. definitions affidavit a written statement confirmed by oath or affirmation for use as evidence in court or for legal purposes. when an affidavit is signed, a notary must be present as an official, impartial witness in order for the document to be legally valid. ​amendment/amend changing or correcting a record by adding, subtracting, or substituting information on the record. applicant the eligible person submitting the application to change the registrants birth record. attestation a formal declaration or witness to a fact. the application includes an attestation for changing name and/or sex and must be signed with a notary present. birthing facility any place where a child is born. this includes hospitals, free-standing birthing facilities, or at home if using a certified or licensed midwife. birth mother/parent who gave birth to the child the person who carried the baby and gave birth. commonly referred to as biological mother or mother. ​ birth record/birth certificate the birth record is the information of live birth that is registered with the state. the birth certificate is the printed version of the birth record. court order/judgment the final decision of a court case that determines the​ rights and obligations of the people involved. both terms are considered to mean the same thing for the purposes of this web page and usually refer to a printed version of the final decision. father/ second genetic parent the genetic non-birth parent. notary a person who is authorized by the state to act as an official witness to the signing of legal documents by verifying the identity of those who sign. original the first created document or item that is not a copy, scan, fax, or email. parentag e the parent-child relationship, with associated rights and responsibilities. parent who gave birth to the child/birth mother the person who carried the baby and gave birth. commonly referred​ to as biological mother or mother. paternity before 2026, “paternity was the term for the process of determining the legal father of a child by completing and signing a voluntary acknowledgment of paternity form. as of january 1, 2026, the term has been replaced by “parentage. ​ registrant the person whose birth record is being changed. they may also be called “person on record, “child on record, or “child. sealed file a file that is kept confidential and not available to the public. typically, even the person named on the record (registrant) must get a court order to access the file.​ ​second genetic parent​/father the genetic non-birth parent. typographical ​typed or printed text.​ checklist to amend a birth record be at least 18 years old. meet eligibility requirement to amend the record and, if necessary, provide proof of eligibility. this information will help determine which document is best to prove your eligibility to amend a birth record based on your relationship to the child named on the record (the registrant). this may not cover every situation and additional information may be required. self / registrant (child listed on the record) self/registrant (child listed on the record)​ if the name on your id matches the name of the child on the record, and you are at least 18 years old nothing else is required. if your id does not match what is currently listed on the birth certificate, proof of how your name was changed must be submitted. for example, a court ordered name change or a name changed through marriage or divorce. parent ​ parent if your id matches one of the parents named on the certificate, nothing else is required. if your id does not match what is currently listed on the birth certificate, proof of how your name was changed must be submitted. for example, a court ordered name change or a name changed through marriage or divorce. ​ legal guardian or agency having custody of the child on the record legal guardian or agency having custody of the child on the record ​ a valid copy of court guardianship papers naming you as legal guardian of the child is required. government agency ​ government agency means a unit of federal, state, local or tribal government. ors 432.005(12) . ​​ the following items are required a copy of an id card issued by your government agency that contains your full name and photograph. a valid copy of the jurisdiction and disposition order showing that the agency has the legal authority to amend the child's record. ​ legal representative ​legal representative legal representative means a licensed attorney representing the registrant or other qualified applicant. ors 432.005(21) .​ a valid copy of court records or legal documentation that authorizes you to act on behalf of the child or another eligible person or a statement on company letterhead explaining who you represent and their relationship to the child is required. ​ if you are representing another person, documents that prove their eligibility will also be required. provide amend a birth record order form amend a birth record order form english amend a birth record order form spanish (formulario de certificado de nacimiento de oregón) examples and tips for how to complete the amend a birth record order form ​ before submitting the amend a birth record order form, please carefully read the instruction pages attached to the form. ​an amendment may also require additional information and/or forms. please see the section on the web page about the specific birth amendment you are requesting to determine what other items may be required. fee tab​le when completing the amend a birth record order form, remember to complete the amendment fee table and, if ordering certificates, the certificate type, quantity, and fees. if completing the table on your computer or device, the totals should be calculated automatically. if printing a blank form, you will need to add the fees together for one grand total.​ ​ ​ example fees in addition to the $35 amendment fee, this customer indicated they would like one full image birth certificate ($30) sent to them once the amendment is completed. their grand total for fees is $65. in addition to the $35 amendment fee, this customer chose to pay the optional $30 expedite fee. they also selected one computer issued birth certificate ($25) to be sent to them once the amendment is completed. their grand total for fees is $90. ​ this customer has two birth certificates to exchange for corrected, replacement certificates once their amendment request is completed. in addition to the $35 amendment fee, they requested two replacement certificates. because the first replacement is free, and each additional copy is $5, they owe $5 for the two replacement certificates. their grand total for fees is $40.​ how to complete the name fields on the form for all birth records except adoptions, delayed birth registrations, and home birth registrations provide the names as they currently appear on the birth record (before the amendment). for adoptions, delayed birth registrations, and home birth registrations provide the names as they should/ will appear on the new birth record. id and signature don't forget submit your id and sign the form. the person who signs the form should be applicant listed in number 11. ​ ​ ​ provide copy of current, photo id ​​ acceptable proof of id​ provide a copy of acceptable proof of id with your order form. ​important ​​ words must be legible and photo must be clear. expired documents are not acceptable. any ​one ​of the following documents are acceptable ​ ​​current, valid driver's license, permit, or id card. current, valid passport or passport card with photo. tribal membership or id card with photo and address (without photo accepted as one of three pieces of id). ​​ u.s. armed services id card with photo. current student body card with name and photo (high school students only). consulate card (matrícula consular) with photo and address. citizen id with photo. permanent resident card with photo. employment authorization document/card (ead) with photo. ​ ​state or federal government id badge with pho​to. or...​ any three of the following documents, as long as at least one shows your current​ address ​​​selective service card or military discharge paper ​(must be original). u.s. immigration or naturalization papers. concealed weapon permit with photo. official papers issued by courts of record which include date of birth. official corrections department or parole papers showing date of birth and full name. vehicle registration or title. personalized check or savings account passbook. monthly banking or mortgage account statement (document must be no more than 30 days old) . pistol or firearms permit. state hunting or fishing license. recent utility or other bill with current address (document must be no more than 30 days old). recent paycheck stub or paycheck (official company type only). (document must be no more than 30 days old.) company identification card. voter registration card issued by a county elections department. valid food stamp, welfare, or unemployment identification. medical or hospital insuran​ce card. tax statements – w-2 forms, etc. auto insurance policy. union membership card. rental agreement that displays the rental property header/logo, is the current property of residence, is signed by the property manager, and shows that id verification has taken place.​ if​ there are differences between information provided and information on the record, or questions about the validity of any document, staff are authorized to request additional information or documents. a printable version of the identifying documents list is available in both ​​ english and ​ spanish ​ .​ provide amendment affidavit or form (if required) (see “requirements for changing or correcting birth records below.) provide original evidence document(s) (if required) (see “requirements for changing or correcting birth records below.) pay amendment fee $35 ​ amendment fee $35 ​ this fee does not include a copy of the certificate after the record is corrected or amended. ​ exceptions to requirement for $35 amendment fee ​ ​​birth amendments submitted by birthing facility in the first year from date of birth due to a birthing facility​​ error or omission may have no amendment fee. birthing facility record corrections to date of birth, time of birth, and sex for any age of child have no amendment fee. adding the child's missing first, middle, and/or last name for the first time with a supplemental report (within 12 months of the birth) has no amendment fee. ​see “requirements for changing or correcting birth records below, payment no cash. make payment by check or money order. make payment out to oha/vital records optional expedite fee how long will it take for my record to get processed? after submitting your amendment request materials and fee, the date your check or money order is cashed represents the verification your materials were received. it also helps you estimate the time remaining before your request is processed. we are unable to provide status updates for individual orders at this time due to high workload and staffing availability. visit the vital records and certificates home page , in the change a record menu column visit amendment processing times to view a list of the latest processing times for different amendment types. this page is updated weekly and subject to change. requests are reviewed and processed in the order they were received. if there are any issues with your request, you will be contacted at that time by secure email, mail, or by phone. please check your junk email folder for any messages from us that may get caught in a filter. expedite option if the amendment needs to be completed sooner than this timeline allows, we offer expedited service for an additional $30 fee. make sure to either select the expedite checkbox or handwrite “expedite on the amendment order form and include the additional $30 with any other amendment or certificate fees you are paying.​ ​ expedited amendments are processed in three (3) full business days once all required documents and fees are received. after the amendment is processed, the amended certificate is sent to you via regular u.s. mail (allow 7-10 business days for delivery). if you require a faster delivery method for the new certificate to be sent, you must provide all materials required by your chosen delivery service, including prepaid envelope and completed mailing label (for example, fedex or ups). the following may cause delays with processing the expedited order inaccurate or incomplete information was submitted missing id and/or documents that are required for the amendment missing fees or partial payment received the applicant who submitted the order is not eligible note the expedite option is only available if the request is matched to a registered record. home births, delayed births, and children born outside of the united states are not eligible for expedited amendments. this fee does not include a certified copy of the amended record and is in addition to the amendment fee. ​ orders that are not eligible for an expedite fee is not home birth delayed birth registration adoptions of children born outside of the united states​ marriage or domestic partnership divorce or dissolution of domestic partnership pay certificate fee(s) $25 - $30 per certificate (if ordering new birth certificate(s)) determine what type of birth certificate you will need ​there are two types of birth certificates issued from oregon vital records computer issued certificate - $25 (also called short form) full image birth certificate - $30 (also called long form) the following information will help you decide which certificate(s) to select on the birth certificate application. 2008​​ or later if you are requesting a birth certificate for someone born in 2008 or later, you must choose the computer issued certificate. computer issued birth certificates (2008 or later) for those born in 2008 or later, computer issued birth certificates include all the data filed at the time of birth including the following full name of child date of birth sex of child time of birth name of hospital or birthing facility full names of parents parents' dates of birth or ages mother's address certifier signature works for all legal needs. births before 2008 if the person on the birth certificate was born before 2008, you can choose between these two options. ​ computer issued birth certificate (pre 2008) for those born before 2008, computer issued certificates included limited information from the birth record. full name of child date of birth sex of child full name of parents these computer issued certificates work for most legal needs such as school enrollment school sports driver's license documentation for cruises passport application (important if amendments have been made to your birth record, submit the full image birth certificate when applying for a passport) full image birth certificates these are copies of the original paper or microfilm birth record from the birthing facility or amended birth record. order the full image certificate if you want all of the details of your birth record. plan to use the birth certificate outside the u.s. need for dual citizenship need to get an authentication document from the oregon secretary of state (apostille) need more detailed information for genealogy research works for all legal needs. you may order one or more of each type of certificate if you want the option to have a certificate with limited personal information and one with all the information from the birth record. ​​ certificate replacement fees ​birth certificate fees $25 for each computer issued certificate ​ $30 for each full image certificate – available only for 1903-2007 birth records payment (please submit one payment that includes all amendment and certificate fees.) no cash. make payment by money order or check. ​ make payment out to oha/vital records ​ replacement fees for birth certificates original certificates can be replaced after an amendment if they are turned in for replacement within one year of issuance . first replacement free/no charge every additional replacement $5.00 certificates issued more than one year ago cannot be replaced. new certificates must be ordered. certificates to be exchanged can be included with your amendment order and will be re-issued when the amendment is complete. if you send in certificates for replacement separately from an amendment order, please include your photo id and a birth order form. amend a birth record order form-english ​ amend a birth record order form-spanish submit the amendment application and materials (see “submit the amendment application below.) requirements for changing or correcting birth records find the birth amendment topic and age range below that describes your situation and read the information for what you are required to submit. if you don't see something that fits what you are trying to change on the birth record, contact the amendments unit . adding a child's first, middle, and/or last names when left blank at time of birth changing or correcting a child's name from name registered at birth changing or correcting a child's date of birth, time of birth, or sex changing or correcting parent information changing a birth record with a court ordered name change changing a birth record with a court ordered sex change guidelines for affidavits/forms adding child's first, middle, and/or last names when left blank at time of birth child under age 1 ​required ​amendment fee none ​​ corrections allowed ​ ​ adding a ​child's first, middle, and/or last names when an entire​​ field is left blank at time of birth​​. note ​if you want to add a second first, middle, or last name to a field, you must use a correction affidavit. see “ changing or correcting a child's name from name registered at birth ​. required documents ​​ ​​​​​​​​​ supplemental report to add omitted data (notarized) ​​ ​ ​​with notarized signature of parents named on record completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id​ ​​​no evidence document required​ ​ age 1 - 6 ​required amendment​​​ fee $35 corrections a​llowed ​adding a child's first, middle, and/or last names when an entire field is left blank at time of birth. ​ required documents ​ ​ affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​​ ​​​​​​​with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id​ ​ no evidence document required age 7 - 17 ​ required amendment fee $35 corrections allowed ​adding a child's first, middle, and/or last names when an entire field is left blank at time of birth. required documents affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​​​​​​​with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record​ evidence document completed amend a birth record order form​​ copy of valid photo id​ evidence document requirements must be at least five years old (or one year old if dated prior to 7th birthday) and must have a document that includes the date the document was created. must show the correct full name and date of birth (or age) of the person whose information is being corrected. original of the document must be submitted to serve as evidence document (cannot accept a photocopy, email, fax, or scan). this will be returned to the applicant after the amendment is complete. ​ ​suggestions for possible evidence document* ​original birthing facility memento birth record (it is understood that this document may not have a creation date) medical record for child with letter from medical attendant/doctor original immunization record original baptismal record or religious blessing record original insurance record/copy of insurance policy application from insurance company original certified school attendance record or school/child care enrollment record​ *note evidence document will be reviewed by an amendment specialist to confirm it meets all requirements. other documents not listed may be accepted as evidence if they meet the evidence document requirements listed above​​. ​ adult age 18 and over r equired amendment fee $35 corrections allowed ​add a child's first, middle, and/or last names when an entire field is left blank at the time of birth. ​ required documents affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​​​​​​​with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record evidence document completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id evidence document requirements must be at least five years old (or one year old if dated prior to 7th birthday) and must have a document that includes the date the document was created. ​ must show the correct full name and date of birth (or age) of the person whose information is being corrected. ​ original of the document must be submitted to serve as evidence document (cannot accept a photocopy, email, fax, or scan). this will be returned to the applicant after the amendment is complete. suggestions for possible evidence d ocument* ​ original ​birthing facility memento birth record (it is understood that this document may not have a creation date.) medical record for child with letter from medical attendant/doctor original immunization record original baptismal record or religious blessing record original insurance record/copy of insurance policy from insurance company original certified school attendance record or school/childcare enrollment record your own child's original birth certificate listing yourself as a parent registrants original certified record listing parent(s) original marriage certificate or certified application for a registered marriage certificate original military discharge record original, certified dmv driving record original passport, issued more than five years ago original naturalization paperwork certified court documents—divorce/child custody, parenting, etc. bank/savings account application with certification letter from bank/agency voter registration document with original envelope from agency certified copy of application for social security number ​ *note evidence document will be reviewed by an amendment specialist​ to confirm it meets all requirements. other documents not listed may be accepted as evidence if they meet the evidence document ​requirements listed above​. ​ changing or correcting a child's name from name registered at birth child under age 1: correcting a typographical errors or omission by birthing facility ​required amendment fee ​ if the only corrections are for errors made by the birth facility, then no fee is required. how to start the amendment process ​ parents must first contact the amendments unit at ​ chs.amendments@oha.oregon.gov and provide all ​​​​​ your child's full name, your child's date of birth, the error as it appears on the certificate or what needs changing, and ​how the corrected information should appear on the birth certificate. ​after the amendments unit has reviewed your request, they may contact you if they need any additional information. ​ ​vital records will contact the birthing facility.​​​​ ​ please do not contact the birthing facility yourself. if you do, they will need to refer you back to our office and this will delay the process.​​ ​after being contacted by the vital records amendments unit, the birthing facility can correct errors that they made when entering the data. (birthing facility error)​ the birthing facility cannot correct errors to data provided by parents at time of birth. (not due to birthing facility error)​​ ​the birthing facility will submit correction(s) to vital records. the vital records office will notify you once the request has been completed and will include instructions on how to order corrected certificates and exchange the incorrect certificates at that time. note ​ if you need to correct a typographical error on a birth certificate by a birthing facility but it has been over one year since the birth of the child on the record, the above process does not apply. find the section in the requirements for changing or correcting a birth record that matches the fields you need to correct to determine what you may need to submit to get the record updated, including the $35 amendment fee. child under age 1: changing or correcting a child s name (not due to birthing facility error) ​required amendment fee $35 corrections allowed ​parents may request a one-time name change by affidavit ​for a child at any time under age 1. this can be any part of the name, or the entire name. a second change to name requires a court order. ​required documents ​ affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​​​​​​​with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record. ​completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id​​ ​ no evidence documents are required child age 1 - 6 ​required amendment fee $35 ​​ corrections allowed that do not require an evidence document ​add/remove suffix (jr, ii, iii, etc.) add missing first/middle names add/remove hyphen in two-part last name examples of corrections allowed that do require an evidence document correct misspelling of name (up to 3 letters) reverse first/middle names reverse two-part last name move middle name to first name field move second first name to middle name field add a new second middle name to middle name field note the following require a court ordered name change ​ ​ . remove any part of first, middle, or last name change any part of first, middle, or last name to a new name add new first name in front of existing first name required documents ​​affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ ​ ​​ with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record.​ evidence document (see directly above to determine if required for this age group.) completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id ​ evidence document requirements (if required, see the list of corrections above) ​must be at least one year old and the document states the date the document was created. ​ must show the correct full name and date of birth (or age) of the person whose information is being corrected​. original of the document must be submitted to serve as evidence document (cannot accept a photocopy, email, fax, or scan). this will be returned to the applicant after the amendment​ is complete. suggestions for possible evidence document* original birthing facility memento birth record (it is understood that this document may not have a creation date) medical record for child with letter from medical attendant/doctor original immunization record original baptismal record or religious blessing record original insurance record/copy of insurance policy from insurance company original certified school attendance record or school/childcare enrollment record *note ​ ​ ​evidence document will be reviewed by an amendment specialist to confirm it meets all requirements. other documents not listed may be accepted as evidence if they meet the evidence document requirements listed above. child age 7 - 17 ​required amendment fee $35 corrections allowed ​add/​remove suffix (jr, ii, iii, etc.) add missing first/middle names add/remove hyphen in two-part last name ​correct misspelling of name (up to 3 letters) reverse first/middle names reverse two-part last name move middle name to first name field move second first name to middle name field add a new second middle name to middle name field note ​the following require a court ordered ​name change . remove any part of first, middle, or last name change any part of first, middle, or last name to a new name add new first name in front of existing first name ​ required documents affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​​​​​​​with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record. ​ evidence document ​completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id evidence document requirements ​must be at least five years old (or one year old if dated prior to 7th birthday​) and the document states the date the document was created. must show the correct full name and date of birth (or age) of the person whose information is being corrected. original of the document must be submitted to serve as evidence document (cannot accept a photocopy, email, fax​​,​​ or scan).​ this will be returned to the applicant after the amendment is complete. ​ ​ suggestions for possible evidence document* original birthing facility memento birth record​ (it is understood that this document may not have a creation date) medical record for child with letter from medical attendant/doctor original immunization record original baptismal record or religious blessing record original insurance record/copy of insurance policy application from insurance company original certified school attendance record or school/childcare enrollment record ​ *note ​ ​ evidence document will be reviewed by an amendment specialist to confirm it meets all requirements. other documents not listed may be accepted as evidence if they meet the evidence document requirements listed above. adult age 18 and over ​required amendment fee $35 corrections allowed add/remove suffix (jr, ii, ii, etc.) add missing first/middle names add/remove hyphen in two-part last name correct misspelling of name (up to 3 letters) reverse first/middle names move middle name to first name field move second first name to middle name field add a new second middle name to middle name field note the following require a court ordered ​​name change . remove any part of first, middle, or last name change any part of first, middle, or last name to a new name add new first name in front of existing first name reverse two-part last name required documents ​ affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​​​​​​​with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record. evidence document completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id ​ evidence document requirements must be at least five years old (or one year old if dated prior to 7th birthday) and ​the document states the date the document was created. must show the correct full name and date of birth (or age) of the person whose information is being corrected. ​original of the document must be submitted to serve as evidence document (cannot accept a photocopy, email, ​fax, or scan). this will be returned to the applicant after the amendment is complete. ​ suggestions for possible evidence documents* ​original birthing facility memento birth record (it is understood that this document may not have a creation date) medical record for child with letter from medical attendant/doctor original immunization record original baptismal record or religious blessing record original insurance record/copy of insurance policy application from insurance company original certified school attendance record or school/daycare enrollment record. your own child\s original birth certificate listening​​ you as a parent original certified school record original certified child's record listing registrant as a parent original marriage certificate or application for a registered marriage certificate original military discharge record original, certified dmv driving record original passport, issued more than five years ago original naturalization paperwork certified court documents—divorce/child custody, parenting, etc. bank/savings account application with certification letter from bank/agency voter registration document with original envelope​​ from agency certified copy of application for social security number *​note ​ evidence document will be reviewed by an amendment specialist to confirm it meets all requirements. ​ other documents not listed may be accepted as evidence if they meet the evidence document requirements listed above. changing or correcting a child's date of birth, time of birth, or sex child under age 1: correcting typographical error by birthing facility required amendment fee none ​ corrections allowed typographical errors by birthing fa​​cility​ (medical facts of birth) to ​date of birth time of birth sex how to start the amendment process parents must first contact the amendments unit at chs.amendments@oha.oregon.gov ​ and provide ​your child's full name, ​your child's date of birth, the error as it appears on the record or what needs changing,​ and ​​ how the corrected information should appear on the birth record. after the amendments unit has reviewed your re​quest, they may contact you if they need any additional information. ​ ​vital records will contact the birthing facility.​​​​ ​ ​ please do not contact the birthing facility yourself. if you do, they will need to refer you back to our office and this will delay the process.​​ ​ ​after being contacted by the vital records amendments unit, the birthing facility can correct errors that they made when entering the data. (birthing facility error)​ the birthing facility cannot correct errors to data provided by parents at time of birth. (not due to birthing facility error)​​ ​the birthing facility will submit correction(s) to vital records. the vital records office will notify you once the request has been completed and will include instructions on how to order corrected certificates and exchange the incorrect certificates at that time. child age 1-20: correcting errors in date of birth, time of birth, and sex required amendment fee none ​ corrections allowed typographical errors by the birthing facility (medical facts of birth) to ​ date of birth time of birth sex ​​ how to start the amendment process parents or registrant (child listed on record), must first contact the amendments unit at chs.amendments@oha.oregon.gov ​and provide ​ child's full name, child's date of birth, the error as it appears on the certificate or what needs changing, and how the corrected information should appear on the birth certificate.​ after the amendments unit has reviewed your request, they may contact you if they need any additional information. ​ vital records will contact the birthing facility.​​​​ ​ please do not contact the birthing facility yourself. if you do, they will need to refer you back to our office and this will delay the process.​​ ​ ​after being contacted by the vital records amendments unit, the birthing facility can correct errors that they made when entering the data. (birthing facility error)​ the birthing facility cannot correct errors to data provided by parents at time of birth. (not due to birthing facility error)​​ ​the birthing facility will submit correction(s) to vital records. the vital records office will notify you once the request has been completed and will include instructions on how to order corrected certificates and exchange the incorrect certificates at that time. ​ if the birthing facility no longer has the medical record or is unable to make the change​, you will be contacted by the amendments unit with next steps on how to correct the record. adult age 21 and over: (hospital records are not available) correcting errors in date of birth, time of birth, and sex ​required amendment fee $35 corrections allowed correcting date of birth correcting time of birth correcting sex required documents ​affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​ ​​with notarized signature of registrant ​ evidence document completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id ​​ evidence document requirements must be at least five years old (or one year old if dated prior to 7th birthday) and must have a document that includes the date the document was created. (for year of birth corrections, documents must have been created before your 7th birthday.) must show the correct full name and date of birth (or age) of the person whose information is being corrected. (for date of birth corrections, the actual date of birth must be present.) original of the document must be submitted to serve as evidence document (cannot accept a photocopy, email, fax, or scan). this will be returned to the applicant after the amendment is complete. suggestions for possible evidence document* ​ original birthing facility memento birth record (it is understood that this document may not have a creation date) medical record for child with letter from medical attendant/doctor original immunization record original baptismal record or religious blessing record original insurance record/copy of insurance policy application from insurance company original certified school attendance record or school/child care enrollment record (correcting sex) original document that identifies you in a specific sex (birth record that identifies you as a mother or father) (child's school record that identifies you as a mother or father) *note evidence document will be reviewed by an amendment specialist to confirm it meets all requirements. other documents not listed may be accepted as evidence if they meet the evidence document requirements listed above . ​ changing or correcting parent information child age 1 - 17 (or under age 1 if birthing facility confirmed that it was not their typographical error) required amendment fee $35 corrections allowed ​correct misspelling of parent name (up to 3 letters) add missing part of parent name add second part of parent last name​ add or correct parent date of birth, age, or birthplace reverse parent's first and middle names reverse order of parent's double last names add or remove hyphen in two-part parent last name add or remove suffix (jr., ii, iii, etc.) in parent name note changing multiple items may require a court order if they could change the identity of the parent. required documents affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​​​​​​​with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record. evidence document completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id evidence document requirements ​must be dated before​ the birth of the child whose record is being corrected and the document states​ the date that document was created. must show the correct full name and date of birth (or age) of the person whose information is being corrected. ​​​original of the document must be submitted to serve as evidence​ document (cannot accept a photocopy, email. fax. or scan). this will be returned to the applicant after the amendment is complete. suggestions for possible evidence document* ​original birth certificate of the parent original marriage certificate of the parent older brother or sister's original​ birth certificate with correct information for the parent original passport of parent ​ ​*note ​ ​ ​evidence document will be reviewed by an amendment specialist to confirm it meets all requirements. other documents not listed may be accepted as evidence if they meet the evidence document requirements listed above​. adult age 18 and over ​required amendment fee $35 corrections allowed ​correct misspelling of parent name (up to 3 letters) add missing part of parent name add second part of parent last name add or correct parent date of birth, age, or birthplace reverse parent's first and middle names reverse order of parent's double last names add or remove hyphen in two-part parent last name add or remove suffix (jr., ii, iii, etc.) in parent name note changing multiple items may require a court order if they could change the identity of the parent. required documents affidavit to correct a birth certificate (notarized) english | spanish ​ ​ ​​​​​​​with notarized signature of both parents if both are listed on the birth record. evidence document completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id evidence document requirements must be dated before to the birth of the child whose record is being corrected (the registrant) and the document states the date the document ​was created. ​​must show the correct full name and date of birth (or age) of the person whose information is being corrected. original of the document must be submitted to serve as evidence document (no photocopies, emails, faxes or scans).​ this will be returned to the applicant after the amendment is complete. suggestions for possible evidence document* ​original birth certificate of the parent original marriage certificate of the parent older brother or sister's original birth certificate ​with correct information for the parent original passport of parent ​​ *note ​​evidence document will be reviewed by an amendment specialist to confirm it meets all requirements.​​ ​o th er docume nts not listed may be accepted as evidence if they meet the evidence document requirements listed above​. changing a birth record with a court ordered name change information about filing for a court ordered name change in oregon ​oregon vital records will not automatically change your birth certificate if a court issues a court ordered name change. under oregon law it is optional whether a birth certificate filed in oregon is amended by the court order. to prove your name change without changing the birth record, you will need to show both an original certified copy of the birth record and a certified copy of the court order. if your name has been changed by court order, you may obtain a certified copy of the order directly from the court that approved it. fees vary; please check directly with the court. for information about how to file for a court ordered name change in oregon visit the circuit court web site in the county where you currently live​ . ​ other states ​ request information from the county or state court where you currently live. ​ how to change the legal name of the child on the birth record with a court ordered name change ​required​ amendment fee $35 ​ who is eligible to make this amendment? child listed on birth record (age 18 or older) -or- parent listed on birth record (for child under age 18) -or- court-appointed legal guardian (for child or registrant​ of any age) required documents ​original certified copy of the court order of the name change for the child listed on the record showing the original seal and signature of the court clerk. (oregon vital records will keep this document in a sealed file.) request to change birth certificate based on court order of name change form ​​ ​​ needs signature of child on record (if 18 or over)​ -or- one parent listed on the birth record ​-or- the legal guardian completed amend a birth record order form​ ​copy of valid photo id ​ note use the request to change birth certificate based on court order of name change form to clarify whether there are two first, middle, or last names if the court order does not specify this information about the new name​. how to change the name of a parent (and possibly parent and child) listed on the birth record with a court ordered name change required amendment fee $35 ​w ho is eligible to make this amendment? child listed on birth record (age 18 or older) -or- parent listed on birth record (for children under age 18) -or- court-appointed legal guardian (for child or registrant​​ of any age) ​ required documents ​​original certified copy of the court order of the name change for the child listed on the record showing the original seal and signature of the court clerk. (oregon vital records will keep this document in a sealed file.) request to change birth certificate based on court order of name change form ​​ ​​ needs signature of child on record (if 18 or over)​ -or- one parent listed on the birth record ​-or- the legal guardian completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id ​ note the child's last name may be changed with the parents' court order if the parent and child currently have an exact shared last name on the child's birth record. use the request to change birth certificate based on court order of name change for parent of child form to clarify whether there are two first, middle, or last names if the court order does not specify this information about the new name. how the birth record will be changed ​ to prevent fraud, changes to names on birth records are documented. the name on the original birth certificate will be removed and the new name typed in. a footnote will be added at the bottom of the record referencing the name prior to the name change, the court order, and the date the record is changed. if the court grants a sealed name change order, or the court order specifically requires that a new birth certificate be created, submit the documentation showing that the name change was sealed. with this documentation you may request a new birth record that does not have a footnote showing the name prior to the amendment. ​ some agencies may also require you to provide a certified copy of the court ordered name change​ to change your name in their records.​ changing a birth record with a court ordered sex change ways to change the designated sex on a birth record ways to change sex designated on a birth record typographical error by facility administrative change to support gender identity (does not require a court order) (also known as house bill 2673) court ordered sex change to correct a typographical error for those wanting to correct a typographical error of their sex on their birth certificate, see changing or correcting a child's date of birth, time of birth, or sex above. ​ to support gender identity​ ​ ​ for those wanting to change the designated sex on their birth certificate to support their gender identity, oregon law provides two ways to make this change administratively (by an application/signature with witness by notary) by court​ order ​​​ if you want to change the sex on your birth certificate to support your gender identity, go to the vital records home page​ , find the “change a record menu, and select the “birth record to support gender identity link. ​ to change the designated sex on a birth record with a court ordered sex change in oregon, a circuit court can grant a change to name and sex . ors 33.460 visit the oregon judicial branch website for name and sex change packets for more information. note we honor court orders from oregon as well as court orders from other states. ​ for those who have gone to court and received a court ordered sex change and/or name change, select “change the sex (and/or name) listed on the birth record with a court ordered sex change (and/or name) about amending a birth record below. change the sex (and/or name) listed on the birth record with a court ordered sex change (and/or name) ​required amendment fee $35 who is eligible to make this amendment? child named on birth record (age 18 or older) -or- parent named on birth record (for child under age 18) -or- court-appointed legal guardian (for child or registrant of any age) required documents ​original certified copy of the court order of change of sex for the person listed on the birth record showing the original seal and signature of the court clerk. (oregon vital records will keep this document in a sealed file.) if the court order changes the legal name as well as the sex of the child named on the birth record, submit the request to change birth certificate based on court order of name change form​ ​ . ​ needs signature of child on record (if 18 or over) -or- one parent listed on the birth record -or- the legal guardian ​ completed amend a birth record order form​ copy of valid photo id guidelines for affidavits/forms guidelines for completing affidavits when completing any affidavit of form that needs to be notarized, ​do the following to make sure the affidavit or form will not be rejected. enter all information on the affidavit exactly as it appears on the registrant's (child on the record) most recent current legal ​birth certificate that is registered with the state.​​ ​​​​​​​​​​​​​​if you do not have a current legal birth certificate, you can order one. this certificate can be exchanged free of charge (amendment fee still applies)​ within one year of the date the certificate was issued. ​ wait to sign the document! take the completed document to a notary and sign it in the presence of the notary. when signing the form be sure to use the name as it appears on the id being submitted with the application. these will need to match.​ if any words are crossed out or any white out is used on the form, the application will be rejected. if you make a mistake, fill out a new form. pay attention to whose signatures are required on the forms. (both parents, if required; child if over age 18; and notary.).​ additional​ information ​most forms can be filled out on your computer and then printed. if you do complete a form by hand, use blue or black ink and print neatly. a notary can be found in many places​ of business. banks, insurance companies, and shipping or document preparation companies will often have a notary.​ submit the amendment application gather submit all required materials ​amend a birth record record order form​ copy of current photo id amendment affidavit or form (if required) original evidence document (if required) $35 amendment fee certificate fees (if ordering new birth certificates)​ $25 for each computer issued​ -or- $30 for each full image -or- $5 replacement fee (if required) payment make one payment for all fees. no cash. make payment by money order or check. make payment out to oha/vital records please do not staple payments or documents to each other or to the order form. ​ ​place all materials in one sealed envelope and submit​ to oregon vital records by mail oregon vital records ​amendments unit​ po box 14050 portland or 97293 -or- ​drop box​ oregon vital records amendments unit 800 ne oregon street portland, or 97232 the bright blue drop box is located at the entrance by the west door (located in the parking lot). the box is checked several times a day during regular business hours. please make sure that the items you drop off are in a sealed envelope, and “ oregon vital record amendment unit is clearly written on the outside. if you are submitting documents to a specific amendment specialist, please include their name on the envelope. if you are submitting additional documents for an existing or pending order, please reference that order number on the envelope. how long will it take for my record to get processed? after submitting your amendment request materials and fee, the date your check or money order is cashed represents the verification your materials were received. it also helps you estimate the time remaining before your request is processed. we are unable to provide status updates for individual orders at this time due​ to high workload and staffing availability. visit the vital records and certificates home page ​ , in the change a record menu column visit amendment processing times to view a list of the latest processing times for different amendment types. this page is updated weekly and subject to change. requests are reviewed and processed in the order they were received. if there are any issues with your request, you will be contacted at that time by secure email, mail, or by phone. please check your junk email folder for any messages from us that may get caught in a filter. the following may cause delays with processing the order inaccurate or incomplete information was submitted missing id and/or documents that are ​required for the amendment​ ​ missing ​ fees or partial payment​ received the applicant who submitted the order is not eligible if the amendment needs to be completed sooner than this timeline allows, we offer expedited service for an additional $30 fee . make sure to either select the expedite checkbox or handwrite “expedite on the amendment a birth record order form and include the additional $30 with any other amendment or certificate fees you are paying . expedited amendments are processed in three (3) full business days once all required documents and fees are received. after the amendment is processed, the amended certificate is sent to you via regular u.s. mail (allow 7-10 business days for delivery). if you require a faster delivery method for the new certificate to be sent, you must provide all materials required by your chosen delivery service, including prepaid envelope and​ completed mailing label (for example, fedex or ups).​​ after the amendment is processed ​ completed amendment requests ​​ once an amendment request has been reviewed, one of the following will happen if the amendment was completed, the record will be updated with the correct information. if new certificates of the updated record were requested and payment was received, ​they will be mailed to the address that was provided. any original evidence or court document(s) provided for the amendment will be returned to the applicant via certified mail with the exception of documents required to be retained in a permanent sealed file. if the amendment was unable to be completed, the applicant will receive an email or letter explaining why and what steps need to happen to continue the amendment process. ​ additional information how do i obtain a copy of the paperwork that was submitted to amend a birth record? ​supporting documents used to amend birth records or register an unattended home birth or delayed birth have not always been retained. however, if you place an order for the supporting documentation, it may be possible to obtain uncertified or certified copies. the registrant (child named on record, if 18 years or older), parent listed on record, legal guardian, or agency having custody of the child on the record may request a copy of supporting documents. as soon as we receive your order, we will contact archives so they can search for the documents. once located, they will ship them to our office so that we can make and issue the copies to you. the fees are $24 fee for a certified copy of the document that was submitted, or $4 for an uncertified copy. to order, please see our birth record supporting documents order form ​ . if no documents are available, we will instead issue a statement on state of oregon letterhead confirming the currently registered birth information. amendments contact information how to contact the amendments unit ​if you call or email an amendments specialist about an amendment, please leave one complete message and include the following ​your first and last name (please spell if leaving a message.) telephone number email address the name currently listed on the record (please spell this if leaving a message.) the date of the vital event (birth, death, etc.) order number, if there is one assigned the amendment type, an exact description of the item that is an error and how it needs to be changed or corrected. (example) the first name of my child was printed incorrectly on his birth certificate. he should have two first names, one middle name and one last name, but it was printed as one first name, two middle names, and one last name. c u​rr​​e​ntly​​​​​​ says ​​​​​ first john middle allen lincoln last example it should be first john allen middle lincoln last example​ whether a request and/or fee has already been submitted to make the change to the record ​ providing this level of detail allows our staff to find your information if it has already been submitted and make sure we are as prepared as possible before responding to your communication. email chs.amendments@oha.oregon.gov​ phone ​​ 971-673-1147 ​ this phone line is exclusively for voicemails and won't be answered by a person. footer oregon health authority find us on facebook follow us on twitter website feedback ​ contact us ​ media request public records director's office ​​ questions about the oregon health plan? to learn more about your new benefits, your welcome packet, and what to do if you have an urgent health care issue please visit the new to oregon health plan​ web page​. ​ access language access digital accessibility nondiscrimination policy ada policy and request for modification notice of privacy practices ​ about oregon back to top oregon health authority how to recognize an official oregon website .gov official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock icon ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. only share sensitive information on official, secure websites. close hidden submit your browser is out-of-date! it has known security flaws and may not display all features of this and other websites. learn how