oregon department of transportation : changing your gender marker on your driver s license or id card : oregon driver & motor vehicle services : state of oregon x close hi! i'm a virtual assistant. how can i help you? skip to main content an official website of the state of oregon learn how you know » (how to identify a oregon.gov website) an official website of the state of oregon » translate this site into other languages toggle main menu main navigation home licenses id cards vehicles fees manuals publications forms records offices most popular search this site submit close div class= or-header-logo span class= sr-only /div oregon driver & motor vehicle services you are here: oregon department of transportation oregon driver & motor vehicle services changing your gender marker on your driver's license or id card changing your gender marker on your driver s license or id card site navigation about us licenses id cards vehicles forms records 50plus teen dmv2u recent if you are changing only your gender marker (appears as “sex” on your license) bring your current id, instruction permit or driver license with you to your local dmv to start your application. by paying your card’s renewal fee you can change your name and/or gender marker. follow these steps to change the gender marker on your driver license or id card make an appointment or visit a dmv office for walk-in service. select one of the three gender markers — m (male), f (female) or x (not specified). meet the requirements for issuance of a renewal or replacement license, permit or id card. pay the renewal or replacement fee . what does x stand for on an oregon license or id? ​the x stands for “not specified on oregon credentials. oregon dmv issues both standard and real id-compliant credentials with the option to choose m, f or x for the gender marker. ​ does the recent presidential executive order on gender impact my state driver’s license, instruction permit or id? ​currently, there has been no direction from the federal government regarding gender/sex markers on real id-compliant driver's licenses and id cards. oregon dmv will continue to issue both standard and real id credentials with the option to choose m, f or x for the gender marker.​ does oregon dmv share name and gender records to anyone at the federal level? oregon dmv data integrates with three federal data systems in the interest of maintaining safe roads across the country. the national driver register maintains the computerized database known as the problem driver pointer system . this system contains information on individuals whose driving privileges have been revoked, suspended, canceled, or denied, or who have been convicted of serious traffic-related offenses. the records maintained at the national driver register include name, date of birth, sex, driver's license number, and reporting state. the selective service system receives records including name, date of birth, sex, driver's license number, and reporting status on a regular basis for military draft and recruitment purposes. law enforcement data system (leds), an oregon system used by law enforcement, maintains records including name, date of birth, sex, driver's license number, and reporting state. federal law enforcement agencies have access to leds. if i change my name or gender marker on my id, does dmv keep the original information? ​yes, oregon dmv is required to maintain a history of all your issuances and the names you use. to prevent identity theft and fraud, dmv uses facial recognition technology to determine the existence of a duplicate record. if more than one record is found, dmv will find both records and combine them.​ what documents do i need to bring to change my name on my identification? bring official documentation proving your new identity when you visit a dmv office. view the list of acceptable documents ​. important oregon dmv verifies a customer's social security number with social security administration, so customers wanting to change their name on their license must first change their name with ssa. learn how to change your name with social security .​ what documents do i need to bring to change my gender marker on my identification? ​bring your current id, instruction permit or driver's license with you to your local dmv. staff will update your record with your gender marker selection m (male), f (female) or x (not specified). you do not need to bring any documents indicating your gender or sex. you will need to pay for a new or replacement id, permit or driver's license. additional fees (and document needs) apply to real id credentials. ​ can i change my name or gender marker with oregon dmv online? ​no, to change your name or gender marker (appears as “sex on the card) on your oregon id, instruction permit or driver's license, you need to visit an oregon dmv office to get a new card. walk-ins are welcome at all dmv offices, or you can also make an appointment at dmv2u . ​ how do i legally change my name in oregon? form packets for name change are available from the oregon judicial department​ .​ how do i legally change my gender in oregon? ​form packets for name change are available from the oregon judicial department​ .​​ how do i legally change my name on my social security record? the ss-5 application for a social security card form is used to change your name on your social security record. note that your card only lists your name; gender markers are kept in a computer file. learn more about how to change your name with social security .​​ how do i legally change my gender on my social security record? as of jan. 31, 2025, the trump administration has directed the social security administration to stop processing gender marker updates associated with social security records.​ how do i change my birth record? for those born in oregon, oregon health authority has a defined process for changes to a birth record. go to oregon health authority correcting/changing birth record information and click on change birth record. if you were born outside oregon, check with your birth state for more information.​​ does my gender marker need to match my social security information? ​ no. dmv does not require proof to validate a gender marker from the social security administration or anywhere else. ​ ​​ footer social media like odot on facebook &nbsp like us on instagram see odot on flickr watch odot on youtube contact us oregon dmv 1905 lana ave ne salem, or 97314 1-503-945-5000 statewide relay (tty) 711 media contacts contact dmv dmv newsroom about us links tripcheck (24/7 travel info) message from the division administrator nondiscrimination and equal access accessibility at odot site index website feedback about oregon back to top how to recognize an official oregon website .gov official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock icon ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. only share sensitive information on official, secure websites. close hidden submit your browser is out-of-date! it has known security flaws and may not display all features of this and other websites. learn how