oregon department of transportation : changing your name : oregon driver & motor vehicle services : state of oregon x close hi! i'm a virtual assistant. how can i help you? skip to main content an official website of the state of oregon learn how you know » (how to identify a oregon.gov website) an official website of the state of oregon » translate this site into other languages toggle main menu main navigation home licenses id cards vehicles fees manuals publications forms records offices most popular search this site submit close div class= or-header-logo span class= sr-only /div oregon driver & motor vehicle services you are here: oregon department of transportation oregon driver & motor vehicle services changing your name changing your name site navigation about us licenses id cards vehicles forms records 50plus teen dmv2u recent driver license, commercial driver license, permit or id card make an appointment or visit a dmv office for standby service. present proof of your legal name change . present proof of identity and address . pay the applicable fee . you can also change your gender marker (appears as sex on the license) as part of this request. dmv verifies with the social security administration dmv verifies a customer’s social security number with social security administration, so customers wanting to change their name on their credential must first change their name with ssa. for real id we need to verify both legal name and social security number with the ssa. the name on the credential must match that on file with the ssa. for standard credentials, we can complete the social security online verification in another name if we receive proof of that name . the name on the credential can be different from the ssa's information. vehicle title registration by mail complete the application (note that your name has changed). attach the title. pay the title fee . mail your request to oregon dmv 1905 lana avenue ne salem or 97314-2250 pro tip! start your application on dmv2u then print, sign and mail it to dmv with the title and fees or bring the title and fees to a dmv office to finish your application. note c hanging the name on your driver license will not automatically change existing vehicle documents (such as title). if dmv spelled your name wrong on your title complete the application . information you will need on the application the correct spelling of your name. your license, permit or id card number. your date of birth. mail your request to oregon dmv 1905 lana avenue ne salem or 97314-2250 there is no fee for this correction. contact dmv if you have any questions. ​​ footer social media like odot on facebook &nbsp like us on instagram see odot on flickr watch odot on youtube contact us oregon dmv 1905 lana ave ne salem, or 97314 1-503-945-5000 statewide relay (tty) 711 media contacts contact dmv dmv newsroom about us links tripcheck (24/7 travel info) message from the division administrator nondiscrimination and equal access accessibility at odot site index website feedback about oregon back to top how to recognize an official oregon website .gov official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock icon ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. only share sensitive information on official, secure websites. close hidden submit your browser is out-of-date! it has known security flaws and may not display all features of this and other websites. learn how