oregon health authority : change birth record to support gender identity : vital records and certificates : state of oregon skip to main content an official website of the state of oregon learn how you know » (how to identify a oregon.gov website) an official website of the state of oregon » translate this site into other languages toggle main menu main navigation about oha about oha contact oha budget and legislation committees, commissions and workgroups digital accessibility programs and divisions policies public meetings public records request questions and comments rules oregon health forward topics a to z programs and services addiction services crisis lines - get help duii resolution immunizations medicaid medical marijuana program mental health services oregon state hospital oregon educators benefit board (oebb) public employees benefit board (pebb) wic program other program and service related topics oregon health plan oregon health plan home log into your ohp account (opens in new window) do you qualify for ohp? (opens in new window) apply fee schedule for healthcare providers preferred drug list renew benefits other oregon health plan related topics health system reform coordinated care organizations (cco) health analytics data health care cost growth target health information technology hospital reporting oregon health policy board recognized clinics transformation center licenses and certificates birth, death, marriage and divorce records food handler cards health care facility licensing health licensing office residential and outpatient behavioral health other license and certificate related topics public health public health home data and statistics disease and conditions environmental health health licensing office healthy people and families preparedness prevention and wellness provider and partner resources state public health laboratory other public health related topics jobs office of information services working at oregon state hospital search this site submit close back to home vital records and certificates oregon center for health statistics you are here: oregon health authority public health division vital records and certificates change birth record to support gender identity change birth record to support gender identity site navigation vital records and certificates frequently asked questions contact us in-person assistance to change vital records is not available . amendment order processing times vary. for more information about what to do if you have submitted an order but have not yet received it click here to return to the main page and select amendment order processing times from the change a record menu. according to oregon law, those wanting to amend an oregon birth record to support their gender identity must complete an application, prove their eligibility, and when required, provide evidence documents to support the correction or change to the record. for more information, see ors 432.235 , oar 333-011-0271 , oar 333-011-0272 , oar 333-011-0273 , and oar 333-011-0275 . if the birth did not occur in oregon, contact the state where it did occur to amend the record. if you need to correct the sex or name on a birth record due to a mistake that was made when creating the original birth record or if your amendment request is for any reason other than for the purpose of affirming gender identity, p lease return to the main page select birth record under the change a record column for those wanting to change the name and/or sex on their birth record to support their gender identity, oregon law provides two ways to make this change administratively (by signing a notarized application), or by a court order. if you already have a court order to change your name and/or sex and would like to amend your birth record to match what was granted by the court, click here . if you would like to change the name and/or sex of the child on the birth record (the registrant) to support their gender identity through the administrative process of signing an application in the presence of a notary, proceed to the checklist to amend a birth record to support gender identity (administrative option) below. definitions ​ affidavit a written statement confirmed by oath or affirmation for use as evidence in court or for legal purposes. when an affidavit is signed, a notary must be present as an official, impartial witness in order for the document to be legally valid​. affirm/affirmation a formal declaration that an affidavit is true.​ amendment/amend changing or correcting a record by adding, subtracting, or substituting information on the record. applicant the eligible person submitting the application to change the registrant's birth record. att​est/attestation a formal declaration or witness to a fact. the application includes an attestation for changing name and/or sex and must be signed with a notary present. birth record/birth certificate the birth record is the information of live birth that is registered with the state. the birth certificate is the printed version of the birth record. court order/judgment the final decision of a court case that determines that rights and obligations of the people involved. both terms are considered to mean the same thing for the purposes of this web page and usually refer to a printed version of the final decision.​ ​​ gender identity a person's inner sense of being male, female, a blend of both or neither. it is how one sees themselves and what they call themselves. a person's gender identity can be the same or different from their sex determined at birth. notary ​ a person who is authorized by the state to act as an official witness to the signing of legal documents by verifying the identity of those who sign.​ ​ registrant the person whose birth record is being updated for gender identity purposes. for birth records, this may also be called “person on record, “child on record, or “child. sealed file a file that is kept confidential and not available to the public. typically, even the person named on the record (registrant) must get a court order to access the file.​ typographical typed or printed text.​ in 2017 oregon passed house bill 2673 which allows people who were born in oregon and need to change their name and/or sex on their birth record to affirm and reflect their gender identity to do so by completing a notarized application rather than having to get a court order. name and sex do not need to be changed at the same time using this administrative process, but each can only be changed once. any further changes require a court order. applicants must attest under penalty of law that the change is for the purpose of affirming gender identity which is different than the sex shown on the birth record. checklist to amend a birth record to support gender identity (administrative option) if the person whose birth record is being changed is age 18 or older (or an emancipated minor), they (or their legal representative) must complete and submit the application to amend their own birth record. if the person whose birth record is being changed is under the age of 18, the applicant must be a parent or legal guardian (or a legal representative for one of these parties). meet eligibility requirement to amend the record and, and if necessary, provide proof of eligibility. this information will help determine which document is best to prove the applicant's eligibility to amend a birth record based on their relationship to the person named on the record (the registrant). this may not cover every situation and additional information may be required. self / registrant (child named on the record) ​ self/registrant (child listed on the record)​ must b​e 18 or older or an emancipated minor. ​ if the registrant's name on their id matches the name of the child on the record, and they are at least 18 years old nothing else is required. if the registrant is under 18, court documentation of emancipation​ is required. if the registrant's name on their id does not match what is currently listed on the birth record, proof of how their​ name was changed must be submitted. ​ examples of proof include a court ordered name change or a name changed through marriage. if the applicant was married in oregon, oregon vital records can do a search for their marriage record. if the applicant was married out of state, they must provide an original marriage certificate as proof of name change. (this is not the commemorative certificate completed at the wedding ceremony, but a printed document from the state's vital records office.) any original supporting documents submitted for this process will be returned to the applicant. parent a parent listed on the birth record (if the registrant is less than 18 years of age). if the parent's name on their id does not match the parent's name that is currently listed on the birth record, proof of how their name was changed must be submitted. examples of proof include a court ordered name change or a name changed through marriage. if the applicant was married in oregon, oregon vital records can do a search for their marriage record. if the applicant was married out of state, they must provide an original marriage certificate as proof of name change. (this is not the commemorative certificate completed at the wedding ceremony, but a printed document from the state's vital records office.) any original supporting documents submitted for this process will be returned to the applicant.​​ legal guardian the registrant's legal guardian (if the registrant is less than 18 years of age). ​a valid copy of court guardianship papers naming them as legal guardian of the child is required.​ legal representative ​a legal representative of one of the following registrant (person listed on birth record) parent listed on birth record registrant's legal guardian ​ the following are required a notarized statement from one of the above stating that the legal representative is authorized to act on their behalf. ​ a statement on letterhead from the legal representative confirming they represent the applicant. provide application to change the name and/or sex on a record of live birth to support gender identity ​ english application (oha 2673) spanish application (ohas 2673) ​ it is vital to enter all information on the application exactly as it appears on the registrant's current legal birth record. if you are unsure of what information is currently registered, we strongly recommend ordering one new certificate to assist in correctly filling out the application. for this amendment, we recommend ordering the full image birth certificate (if the person's record who is being changed was born before 2008) because it provides more details​. (see “determine what type of certificates you will need in section 6 of the checklist for more information.) ​ if you order a certificate for this purpose, it can be exchanged for the amended certificate free of charge within one year of the date the certificate was issued. so, if you order and pay for a certificate before you submit the application, make sure to include that certificate for exchange with your application and amendment fee. (see pay certificate fee(s) certificate and replacement fees for more information.) complete the application video of step-by-step instructions on how to complete and submit the application to change the name and/or sex on a record of live birth to support gender identity complete items 1-15 of the application to change the name and/or sex on a record of live birth to support gender identity (form hb2673) . please type in answers or print clearly in blue or black ink. incomplete forms may be subject to rejection. do not sign the application until asked to do so by the notary.​ ​ tips for completing items 1-15 applicant information ​ ​ ​​​this is the applicant's full, legal name. (timothy test example not tim t example) this is the applicant's residential address. ​if the mailing address is the same as #2, leave blank or write n/a. provide the best number to reach the applicant by phone from the hours of 8 00 am to 5 00 pm pacific time. provide the best address to reach the applicant by email. relationship examples include mother, father, legal representative, guardian .​ • ​​​​if applicant is also the registrant, write “self. registrant information on the record to be amended. ​it is important to write information in this section as it appears on the registrant's birth certificate. do not abbreviate names or provide initials (jon for jonathan or t. for timothy) ​​​write the exact names that appear on the registrant's birth certificate. provide the date of birth in the mm/dd/yyyy format. write the sex that currently appears on the registrant's birth certificate.​ ​ • m for male ​ • f for female • u for undetermined​​ • x for non-binary list either the city or county of birth. list the ​mother/parent a's full name at the mother/parent a's birth as it appears on the registrant's birth certificate. note ​​ ​inaccurate information is often provided for this number, causing the application to be rejected and returned to the applicant for resubmission. please read these directions carefully. • ​for the mother/parent a, this will be their name at their birth or prior to their first marriage as it appears on the registrant's birth certificate. • this may have several different labels and box numbers, depending on the year the registrant was born and what certificate was requested. • maiden surname (box 7b of some birth certificates) • name prior to first marriage (box 5b, 5c, or 6c of some birth certificates) • ​mother of child (maiden name) (box 8 of some birth certificates) • ​on some birth certificates, the last name at the mother/parent a's birth is listed alone in its own box, often labeled “maiden surname. make sure to write the maiden surname with the first and middle name. in the below example, the registrant's mother was born with the name of mary fake test. her name was mary fake example when the registrant was born. mary fake test should be written in #11. ​the mother's name at her birth is much easier to identify in the below birth certificate. the whole name is recorded under “name prior to first marriage. ​ ​ ​​list the father/parent b's full name as it appears on the registrant's birth certificate. • ​if only one parent is listed on the current certificate, write n/a in the blank parent's section. (a) if changing the registrant's name, make sure to check the box and provide how the new name should appear for the new birth certificate. (a/b) if changing the sex, check the box in 14a and choose the box of the new sex in 14(b) • m – male • f – female • x – non-binary if requesting a new copy of the updated birth certificate, check the box and indicate how many copies and which type of certificate you would like sent to you. see “6. pay certificate fee(s) (below) for more information.​ important if any words are crossed out or any white out is used on the form, the application will be rejected . if you make a mistake, fill out the form again completely. sign/notarize the application the applicant must take the completed application to a notary and sign it in the presence of the notary . a notary can be found in many places of business. banks, insurance companies and shipping or document preparation companies will often have a notary.​ provide copy of current, photo id note if your id does not match what is currently listed on the birth certificate, proof of how your name was changed must be submitted. examples of proof include a court ordered name change or a name changed through marriage. acceptable proof of id ​ provide a copy of acceptable proof of id with your order form. important ​ words must be legible and photo must be clear. expired documents are not acceptable.​ ​​any one of the following documents are acceptable ​current, valid driver's license, permit, or id card. current, valid passport or passport card with photo. tribal membership or id card with photo and address (without photo accepted as one of three pieces of id). u.s. armed services id card with photo. current student body card with name and photo (high school students only). consulate card (matrícula consular) with photo and address. citizen id with photo. permanent resident card with photo. employment authorization document/card (ead) with photo. state or federal government id badge with photo. or...​ any three of the following documents, as long as at least one shows your current address ​selective service card or military discharge paper (must be original). u.s. immigration or naturalization papers. concealed weapon permit with photo. official papers issued by courts of record which include date of birth. official corrections department or parole papers showing date of birth and full name. vehicle registration or title. personalized check or savings account passbook. monthly banking or mortgage account statement (document must be no more than 30 days old). pistol or firearms permit. state hunting or fishing license. recent utility or other bill with current address (document must be no more than 30 days old). recent paycheck stub or paycheck (official company type only). (document must be no more than 30 days old.) company identification card. voter registration card issued by a county elections department. valid food stamp, welfare, or unemployment identification. medical or hospital insurance card. tax statements – w-2 forms, etc. auto insurance policy. union membership card. rental agreement that displays the rental property header/logo, is the current property of residence, is signed by the property manager, and shows that id verification has taken place. if there are differences between information provided and information on the record, or questions about the validity of any document, staff are authorized to request additional information or documents. ​ a printable version of the identifying documents list is available in both english and spanish ​ .​ pay amendment fee $35 amendment fee $35 this fee does not include a copy of the certificate after the record is corrected or amended.​ ​ payment no cash. make payment by money order or check. make payment out to oha/vital records ​ optional expedite fee how long will it take for my record to get processed? after submitting your amendment request materials and fee, the date your check or money order is cashed represents the verification your materials were received. it also helps you estimate the time remaining before your request is processed. we are unable to provide status updates for individual orders at this time due to high workload and staffing availability. visit the vital records and certificates home page , in the change a record menu column visit amendment processing times to view a list of the latest processing times for different amendment types. this page is updated weekly and subject to change. requests are reviewed and processed in the order they were received. if there are any issues with your request, you will be contacted at that time by secure email, mail, or by phone. please check your junk email folder for any messages from us that may get caught in a filter. expedite option if the amendment needs to be completed sooner than this timeline allows, we offer expedited service for an additional $30 fee. make sure to either select the expedite checkbox or handwrite “expedite on the amendment order form and include the additional $30 with any other amendment or certificate fees you are paying.​ ​ expedited amendments are processed in three (3) full business days once all required documents and fees are received. after the amendment is processed, the amended certificate is sent to you via regular u.s. mail (allow 7-10 business days for delivery). if you require a faster delivery method for the new certificate to be sent, you must provide all materials required by your chosen delivery service, including prepaid envelope and completed mailing label (for example, fedex or ups). the following may cause delays with processing the expedited order inaccurate or incomplete information was submitted missing id and/or documents that are required for the amendment missing fees or partial payment received the applicant who submitted the order is not eligible note the expedite option is only available if the request is matched to a registered record. home births, delayed births, and children born outside of the united states are not eligible for expedited amendments. this fee does not include a certified copy of the amended record and is in addition to the amendment fee. ​ orders that are not eligible for an expedite fee is not home birth delayed birth registration adoptions of children born outside of the united states​ marriage or domestic partnership divorce or dissolution of domestic partnership pay certificate fee(s) $25 - $30 per certificate (if ordering new birth certificates.) determine what type of birth certificate you will need ​ there are two types of birth certificates issued from oregon vital records computer issued certificate - $25 (also called short form) full image birth certificate - $30 (also called long form) ​the following information will help you decide which certificate(s) to select on the birth certificate application. ​ 2008 or later if you are requesting a birth certificate for someone born in 2008 or later, you must choose the computer issued certificate. computer issued birth certificates (2008 or later) for those born in 2008 or later, computer issued birth certificates include all the data filed at the time of birth including the following ​ full name of child date of birth sex of child time of birth name of hospital or birth facility full names of parents parents' dates of birth or ages mother's address certifier signature ​​works for all legal needs. births before 2008 if the person on the birth certificate was born before 2008, you can choose between these two options. computer issued birth certificate (pre 2008) for those born before 2008, computer issued certificates included limited information from the birth record. ​ full name of child date of birth sex of child full name of parents t​hese computer issued certificates work for most legal needs such as school enrollment school sports driver's license documentation for cruises passport application (important if amendments have been made to your birth record, submit the full image birth certificate when applying for a passport) full image birth certificates these are copies of the original paper or microfilm birth record from the hospital or amended birth record. order the full image certificate if you ​​​​ want all of the details of your birth record. plan to use the birth certificate outside the u.s. need for dual citizenship need to get an authentication document from the oregon secretary of state (apostille) need more detailed information for genealogy research works for all legal needs. you may order one or more of each type of certificate if you want the option to have a certificate with limited personal information and one with all the information from the birth record. ​ certificates replacement fees ​birth certificate fees $25 for each computer issued certificate $30 for each full image certificate – available only for 1903-2007 birth records payment (please submit one payment that includes all amendment and certificate fees.) no cash. make payment by money order or check. make payment out to oha/vital records replacement fees for birth certificates original certificates can be replaced after an amendment if they are turned in for replacement within one year of issuance. ​​first replacement free/no charge every additional replacement $5.00 ​​certificates issued more than one year ago cannot be replaced. new certificates must be ordered.​ certificates to be exchanged can be included with your amendment order and will be re-issued when the amendment is complete. if you send in certificates for replacement separately from an amendment order, please include your photo id and a birth order form. birth order form-english birth order form-spanish ​ ​ submit the amendment application and materials ​​ gather submit all required materials ​ ​application to change the name and/or sex on a record of live birth to support gender identity (original, notarized application) copy of current photo id (and any required eligibility documents) $35 amendment fee certificate fees (if ordering new birth certificates) $25 for each computer issued - o r- ​ $30 for each full i mage - o r- $5 replacement fee (if required) payment make one payment for all amendment and certificate ​fees. no cash. make payment by money order or check. make payment out to oha/vital records please do not staple payments or documents to each other or to the order form. place all materials in one envelope and submit to oregon vital records by mail oregon vital records amendments unit po box 14050 portland or 97293 -or-​ ​ drop box oregon vital records amendments unit 800 ne oregon street portland or 97232 the bright blue box is located at the entrance by the west door (located in the parking lot). th e box is checked several times a day during regular business hours. please make sure that the items ​you drop off are in a sealed envelope, and oregon vital record amendments unit is clearly written on the outside. if you are submitting documents to a specific amendments specialist, please include their name on the envelope. if you are submitting additional documents for an existing or pending order, please reference that order number on the envelope. additional information about amending a birth record to support gender identity how long will it take for my record to get processed? ​ after submitting your amendment request materials and fee, the date your check or money order is cashed represents the date your materials were received. it also helps you estimate the time remaining before your request is processed. we are unable to provide status updates for individual orders at this time due to high workload and staffing availability. visit the “amendment processing times” link in the “change a record” menu from the vital records and certificates home page to view a list of the latest estimated processing times for different amendment types. this page is updated weekly and is subject to change. requests are reviewed and processed in the order they were received. if there are any issues with your request, you will be contacted at that time by secure email, mail, or by phone. please check your junk email folder for any messages from us that may get caught in a filter. the following may cause delays with processing the order inaccurate or incomplete information was submitted missing id and/or documents that are required for the amendment missing fees or partial payment received the applicant who submitted the order is not eligible ​ if the amendment needs to be completed sooner than this timeline allows, we offer expedited service for an additional $30 fee. you must write on the order form that you are expediting your request with your additional $30 payment. expedited amendments are processed in three (3) full business days once all required documents and fees are received. after the amendment is processed, the amended certificate is sent to you via regular u.s. mail (allow 7-10 business days for delivery). if you require a faster delivery method for the new certificate to be sent, you must provide all materials required by your chosen delivery service, including prepaid envelope and completed mailing label (for example, fedex or ups).​ if you have not received your certificates or a communication about additional items that are needed within three weeks after the estimated wait time please email chs.amendments@oha.oregon.gov . ​ after the amendment is processed for those changing their sex and or name on their birth record to support their gender identity by the administrative process documentation you will receive after the application is processed once all forms, documentation, and fees have been received, the application will be reviewed. if the request to make an administrative change of name and/or sex to support gender identity is approved, the following will occur ​the birth record will be updated with the correct information. the applicant will receive documentation that includes a copy of the application form requesting the change. correspondence from the state registrar on the final decision. a new birth certificate for the registrant (if requested on the application and payment was received). any original evidence or court document(s) provided for the amendment will be returned to the applicant via certified mail with the exception of the application (oha 2673). these documents will be returned at a separate date from when your certificates are mailed to you. ​ if denied, the applicant will receive correspondence indicating the reason for denial. if the amendment was unable to be completed, the applicant will receive an email or letter explaining why and what steps need to happen to continue amendment process. ​fees and items previously submitted will be placed on hold pending receipt of the required items.​​​​​ for those changing their sex and or name on their birth record to support their gender identity by submitting a court ordered sex change completed amendment requests ​ once an amendment request has been reviewed, one of the following will happen if the amendment was completed, the record will be updated with the correct information. if new certificates of the updated record were requested and payment was received, they will be mailed to the address that was provided. any original evidence or court document(s) provided for the amendment will be returned to the applicant via certified mail with the exception of documents required to be retained in a permanent sealed file. if the amendment was unable to be completed, the applicant will receive an email or letter explaining why and what steps need to happen to continue the amendment process. will other agencies accept this new birth record? ​ we cannot guarantee if other agencies will accept these amended certificates to change information already on file with the agency. for records with an amended sex designation, nothing on the certificate will indicate an amendment occurred. this may make it difficult to connect the current record with any previous name on file at other agencies. in some cases, agencies might require a court order to recognize the new name and/or sex. we will work with applicants that ask us to explain the process to another agency, but we do not control the rules or procedures of other agencies and cannot speak for them.​ frequently asked questions (for administrative process) ​ will there be a reference to my previous name and/or sex on my new birth record? if only the name is changed through this administrative process there will be a footnote, but the previous name will not be included. for example, if your original name was john example the name “john example” would not be referenced in the footnote. the footnote would be similar to the following if sex, or name and sex, are changed through this administrative process, will there be a footnote? like all records that are changed, there may be filing numbers added that are used internally, but the previous name and sex will not appear anywhere on the birth record. additionally, any existing footnotes will be removed. can a parent use hb 2673 to update their information on the registrant's record? no. hb 2673 was written to support the registrant's gender identity. to update parent information, please contact chs.amendments@oha.oregon.gov . how long does it take before i receive a new birth certificate? the application to change the name and/or sex on a record of live birth to support gender identity will be processed in the order it was received. processing times vary, w​​e are unable to provide status updates for individual orders at this time due to high workload and staffing availability. visit the “amendment processing times” link in the “change a record” menu from the ​ vital records and certificates home page to view a list of the latest estimated processing times for different amendment types. this page is updated weekly and is subject to change.​ what if i don't have an id in my current legal name? if the name on your identification differs from the name on your birth record, please provide a certified record of the document that changed your name. for example, a certified court ordered name change, marriage record, or divorce record. if you send an original document for this purpose, it will be returned to you after the application process is complete. what if i don't have appropriate documentation? if you are unable to sufficiently prove your eligibility to amend or order the record, or otherwise lack appropriate documentation, we may not be able to approve your request to change name or sex administratively. in this case, you would receive correspondence explaining why your application cannot be processed. changing your name and/or sex through a court order would still be possible. do both parents need to sign the application to change the name and/or sex designation of a minor? no. if the name and/or sex designation of a child is being changed with an application to change the name and/or sex on a record of live birth to support gender identity, the law only requires one parent to sign the application. for more information, see ors 432.235 (3)(a) . how do i update my information at the social security office or dmv after my birth record is changed? each agency has their own unique requirements and procedures for updating information. you should contact the agency in question directly for specific instructions. in general, organizations will want to see a certified copy of the updated birth record. can i change my name and/or sex more than once through this administrative process? no. changing your name and/or sex through the administrative route authorized by hb 2673 can only be done once. any subsequent changes to name and/or sex would require a court order.​ do i need to change my name and sex at the same time? no. the name and sex can each be changed only once through this administrative process, but they do not need to be changed at the same time.​ can i still change my name and sex through a court order? yes. name and sex can still be changed through a court order. in some cases, a person may opt to change their name and/or sex through a court order rather than using this administrative process to facilitate acceptance by agencies that may not recognize the change. can i change my record if i am no longer living in oregon? yes. if you were born in oregon but no longer reside here, you may still update your birth record. this can be done by submitting the necessary documents by using the drop box or through the mail. can i get an apostille of my new birth record? yes. instructions for obtaining an apostille and additional information may be found at http //sos.oregon.gov/business/pages/apostille.aspx . can i get an apostille of the application to change the name and/or sex on a record of live birth to support gender identity? an apostille is a document authorized by the hague convention of 1961 that confirms the signature and authenticity of a government document generally required for international use. the attestation/application likely will not qualify for an apostille. see http //sos.oregon.gov/business/pages/apostille.aspx for more information about apostille from the oregon secretary of state. court ordered option to change the sex and or name on a birth record change the sex (and/or name) listed on the birth record with a court ordered sex change (and/or name) in oregon, a circuit court can grant a change to name and sex. see ors 33.460 visit the oregon judicial branch website for name and sex change packets for more information. note we honor court orders from oregon as well as court orders from other states. ​ for those who have gone to court and receive a court order of sex and/or name change​, read the following information about amending a birth record. ​ ​ who is eligible to make this amendment? child named on birth record (age 18 or older) -or- parent named on birth record (for child under age 18) -or- court-appointed legal guardian (for child or registrant of any age) required documents/fees 1. ​original certified copy of the court ordered sex change for the person listed on the birth record showing the original seal and signature of the court clerk. (oregon vital records will keep this document in a sealed file.) ​ 2. ​if the court order changes the legal name as well as the sex of the child named on the birth record, submit the request to change birth certificate based on court order of name change form ​​​​. ​​needs signature of child on record (if 18 or over) -or- one parent listed on the birth record ​​-or- ​the legal guardian 3. completed birth order form. english birth order form ​ spanish birth order form ​ 4. copy of valid photo id.* 5. $35 amendment fee​.* 6. certificate fee(s) (if ordering new birth certificates).*​​ ​​$25-30​ per certificate*​ -or-​​ ​​replacement fees*​​​ ​​​ ​ ​ *see #4-6 ​​ of checklist to amend a birth record to support gender identity at the top of the page for more information. the required fees and submission process is the same for the administrative and court ordered option to change a name and or sex on a birth record. ​ payment make one payment for all fees.​ no cash. make payment by money order or check. ​ make payment out to oha/vital records ​ gather submit all required materials please do not staple payments or documents to each other or to the order form. place all materials in one envelope submit to oregon vital records by mail oregon vital records amendments unit po box 14050 portland or 97293 -or- ​ drop box oregon vital records amendments unit 800 ne oregon street portland or 97232 the bright blue box is located at the entrance by the west door (located in the parking lot). th e box is checked several times a day during regular business hours. please make sure that the items ​you drop off are in a sealed envelope, and oregon vital record amendments unit is clearly written on the outside. if you are submitting documents to a specific amendments specialist, please include their name on the envelope. if you are submitting additional documents for an existing or pending order, please reference that order number on the envelope. amendments contact information how to contact the amendments unit ​​if you leave a voicemail or email an amend​me​nts specialist​ about an amendment, please leave one complete message and include 1. your first and last name (please spell if leaving a message.) 2. telephone number 3. email address 4. the name currently listed on the record (please spell this if leaving a message.) 5. the date of the vital event (birth, death, etc.) 6. order number, if there is one assigned 7. the amendment type, an exact description of the item that is in error and how it needs to be changed or corrected (example) the first name of my child was printed incorrectly on his birth certificate. he should have two first names, one middle name and one last name, but it was printed as one first name, two middle names, and one last name. currently says first john middle allen lincoln last example it should be first john allen middle lincoln last example 8. whether a request and/or fee has already been submitted to make the change to the record. ​ ​​providing this level of detail allows our staff to find your information ​if it has already been submitted and make sure we are as prepared as possible before responding to your communication. email chs.amendments@oha.oregon.gov phone 971-673-1147 this phone line is exclusively for voicemails and won't be answered by a person.​ footer oregon health authority find us on facebook follow us on twitter website feedback ​ contact us ​ media request public records director's office ​​ questions about the oregon health plan? to learn more about your new benefits, your welcome packet, and what to do if you have an urgent health care issue please visit the new to oregon health plan​ web page​. ​ access language access digital accessibility nondiscrimination policy ada policy and request for modification notice of privacy practices ​ about oregon back to top oregon health authority how to recognize an official oregon website .gov official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock icon ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. only share sensitive information on official, secure websites. close hidden submit your browser is out-of-date! it has known security flaws and may not display all features of this and other websites. learn how