corrections and amendments skip to content skip to chat report an accessibility issue. state of connecticut × search search language arabic chinese (simplified) chinese (traditional) english french german haitian creole hindi italian korean pashto polish portuguese (brazil) russian spanish filipino ukrainian vietnamese department of public health department of public health department of public health main menu close back back home individuals & families immunizations vaccine providers general public immunization records laws and regulations ct wiz training contact immunizations newborn screening parents & children dph programs disease & prevention health & the environment providers emergency medical services (ems) certificate of need resources & records data, statistics, and research licensing vital records news & events about us faq you are about to logout are you sure you want to log out of your account? if you do want to logout, please click logout. cancel logout ct.gov home dph current: corrections and amendments state vital records office ct-vitals how to obtain a record births deaths marriages adoptions and foreign births parentage gender change correcting or amending a record forms research and data connvrs connecticut general statutes contact us search department of public health search the current agency with a keyword filtered topic search corrections and amendments requesting a correction or amendment to a vital record who is eligible to request a correction or amendment to a vital record? an individual responsible for filing a vital record may request a correction or amendment to a birth certificate (e.g. hospital birth registrar, funeral director). in addition to the individual filing the vital record, the following parties are eligible to request a correction or amendment to a vital record: for births, the registrant is at least 18 years of age, or parent or legal guardian of a minor registrant. for marriages, both parties to the marriage if the marriage is still intact and both spouses are still alive. if one of the spouses is deceased, the surviving spouse may request a correction or amendment individually. if the marriage has been dissolved, then each spouse may request a correction or amendment, but only to the information pertaining to that spouse. for deaths, the next of kin, the informant, certifier, medical examiner, or funeral director named on the death certificate for fetal deaths, a parent, medical certifier, medical examiner, or funeral director how do i get the name changed on my (or my child s) birth certificate? the individual requesting the name change must be the registrant listed on the birth record or the parent of a minor s birth record. a legal name change court order is required to change any part of the child s name ( first, middle or last name). a legal name change court order may be obtained from a court of competent jurisdiction. once the legal name change has been obtained, it must be presented to the town where the birth occurred. the following items must be submitted to the town clerk (in person or through the mail): an original, certified legal name change court order (original will be returned upon request) a notarized affidavit: if individual is a minor, only a legal parent can complete the affidavit (ie: legal guardian or listed parent) my child s name change affidavit if individual is an adult, only that person can complete the affidavit my name change affidavit a government issued photo id from the requester note: connecticut only allows the child s (registrant's) name fields to be changed through the legal name change process. parent name fields cannot be changed through this process. where do i go to get the name changed on my (or my child's) birth certificate? the town where the birth occurred. how do i request a correction or an amendment to a vital record? you must provide to the registrar of the town where the vital event took place, a notarized affidavit affirming that the existing vital record is incorrect or incomplete, and that the newly provided information is accurate. along with your affidavit, you must submit documentation proving that the information to be entered onto the record is accurate. contact the vital records office in the town where the vital event occurred for further information to determine what type of documentation will be needed to support the requested amendment or correction. connecticut general statutes requesting a correction or amendment to a form - connecticut general statutes 19a-42 ; regulations of connecticut state agencies 19a-41-5 through 19a-41-11 town directory how much does it cost to amend or correct a vital record? there is no processing fee for amendments or corrections. how to obtain a record contact us department of public health 410 capitol avenue hartford, ct 06134 about ct policies accessibility directories social media for state employees united states mast: (full) connecticut mast: (full) 2026 ct.gov - connecticut's official state website