gender change skip to content skip to chat report an accessibility issue. state of connecticut × search search language arabic chinese (simplified) chinese (traditional) english french german haitian creole hindi italian korean pashto polish portuguese (brazil) russian spanish filipino ukrainian vietnamese department of public health department of public health department of public health main menu close back back home individuals & families immunizations vaccine providers general public immunization records laws and regulations ct wiz training contact immunizations newborn screening parents & children dph programs disease & prevention health & the environment providers emergency medical services (ems) certificate of need resources & records data, statistics, and research licensing vital records news & events about us faq you are about to logout are you sure you want to log out of your account? if you do want to logout, please click logout. cancel logout ct.gov home dph current: gender change state vital records office ct-vitals how to obtain a record births deaths marriages adoptions and foreign births parentage gender change correcting or amending a record forms research and data connvrs connecticut general statutes contact us search department of public health search the current agency with a keyword filtered topic search gender change sex amendment to reflect gender change how do i request an amendment to the sex designator on a birth certificate? if you would like to request an amendment to the sex designator on your birth certificate, you must send the following documents to the vital records office at the department of public health, 410 capitol avenue, ms #11vrs, hartford, connecticut 06106. a certified copy of a court order granting your legal name change, if you would like your amended birth certificate to reflect a new name; a photocopy of a valid, government issued photo identification; a notarized affidavit from you, signed under penalty of law, requesting a replacement birth certificate be created to reflect that your gender differs from the sex designated on your current birth certificate. if the registrant is a minor, a parent must complete an affidavit. a notarized affidavit completed by a licensed physician, a licensed physician assistant, a licensed advanced practice registered nurse, or a licensed psychologist, stating that you (or in the case of a minor, your child) have undergone surgical, hormonal or other treatment clinically appropriate for the purpose of gender transition. open and print the following instructions and forms to begin the process. ** print on white paper only! * * instructions and forms for amending sex on birth certificate instructions and forms for amending sex on birth certificate minor how do i request an amendment to the sex designator on a marriage certificate? if you would like to request an amendment to the sex designator on your marriage certificate, you must send the following documents to the vital records office at the department of public health, 410 capitol avenue, ms #11vrs, hartford, connecticut 06106. a notarized affidavit from you, signed under penalty of law, requesting a replacement marriage certificate be created to reflect that your gender differs from the sex designated on your current marriage certificate . additionally, the affidavit includes an affirmation that the marriage is legally intac t; a notarized affidavit from your spouse consenting to a replacement marriage certificate to reflect that the applicant s gender differs from the sex designated on the current marriage certificate. additionally, the affidavit includes an affirmation that the marriage is legally intact ; a photocopy of a valid, government issued photo identification; o ne of the following : a united states passport reflecting the applicant s gender as of the date of the request; or an amended birth certificate reflecting the applicant s gender as of the date of the request; or a court order reflecting the applicant s gender as of the date of the request; or a notarized affidavit completed by a licensed physician, a licensed advanced practice registered nurse, a licensed physician assistant or a licensed psychologist, stating that you have undergone surgical, hormonal, or other treatment clinically appropriate for the purpose of gender transition. ( affidavit of health care practitioner ) a certified copy of a court order granting your legal name change if you would like your amended marriage certificate to reflect a new name . open and print the following instructions and forms to begin the process. ** print on white paper only! ** instructions and forms for amending sex on marriage certificate how much does it cost to amend the sex designator on a birth or marriage certificate? there is no processing fee for amendments. how do i obtain a certified copy of the amended birth or marriage certificate? to request a certified copy of your amended birth certificate complete and submit the application to request a birth certificate , along with your photo id, and payment of $30 per copy. payment must be in the form of a money order made payable to the treasurer, state of connecticut . credit card payments and personal checks are not accepted. to request a certified copy of your amended marriage certificate c omplete and submit the application to request a marriage certificate , a long with your photo id, and payment of $ 2 0 per copy. payment must be in the form of a money order made payable to the treasurer, state of connecticut . credit card payments and personal checks are not accepted. how to obtain a record contact us department of public health 410 capitol avenue hartford, ct 06134 about ct policies accessibility directories social media for state employees united states mast: (full) connecticut mast: (full) 2026 ct.gov - connecticut's official state website