ga r r - gac - subject 375-3-1 general provisions home | browse | help | go to georgia sos | download hierarchy search: y n search tips r oute : ga r r department 375 chapter 375-3 subject 375-3-1 subject 375-3-1 general provisions rule 375-3-1-.01 assignment of customer identification number (1) upon initial application to the department for adriver's license or identification card, the applicant, upon satisfaction of the requirements for issuance of the document, will be assigned a unique identification number generated by a random number system. (2) any other document issued to the applicant by the department will bear the identification number previously assigned. (3) requests for a change of the customer identification numbers will be honored under the following circumstances: (a) the current customer identification number is the applicant's social security account number; or (b) the applicant's driver's license and/or identification card has been stolen; or (c) the office of investigative services has authorized a change of customer identification number in writing; or (d) the applicant submits documentation from a family violence program or family violence shelter, as those terms are defined in o.c.g.a. §§ 19-13-20(4) and (5) , evidencing a need to change his or her identification number because he or she is the victim of family violence or the minor child of a victim of family violence; or (e) the applicant's driver's license and/or identification card has been stolen, lost, or misplaced. (4) all requests for a change of the customer identification number may be subject to verification/and or approval from the office of investigative services. (5) change of the customer identification number will be limited to three (3) changes per customer or applicant within a twelve (12) month period, unless the request is accompanied by a police report. (6) applicants requesting a change of the customer identification number must complete an affidavit on a form prescribed and furnished by the department. (7) applicants who are approved for a change of the customer identification number must pay the applicable replacement license or identification card fee. (8) customer identification numbers may also be changed, in the discretion of the department, as needed to carry out the department's obligations. (9) for the purposes of this chapter, the term "customer identification number" shall have the same meaning as the term "driver identification number," "distinguishing number," and "identification card number." (10) customers for whom the department has not issued a driver's license, permit or identification card, but for whom it is necessary to create a driving record pursuant to o.c.g.a. § shall also be issued a unique identification number generated by a random number system. such number shall be used on any driver's license, permit or identification card subsequently issued to said customer, if any. rule 375-3-1-.02 applications and supporting documentation (1) customers applying for issuance or renewal of any driver's license, permit, or identification card issued by the department shall complete a written application in a form to be determined by the department. such application shall require the applicant to indicate the following: (a) whether he or she has ever been issued a driver's license by the state of georgia or any other state or agency, and if so, the date and place of issuance with the license number, if known; (b) whether any previously issued license, whether issued by the state of georgia or any other state or licensing agency, has ever been revoked, suspended or canceled, or whether any application for a motor vehicle driver's license has ever been denied. the application shall state the cause for revocation, suspension, cancellation or denial, the circumstances surrounding the action taken, the number of times such action has been taken and whether the license has been re-issued or application granted; and (2) applications executed pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include a declaration under penalty of perjury that the information contained in the application is true and correct. (3) each application must be supported by documentation of the customer's identity, specifically his or her name and date of birth. documents that are acceptable include the following: (a) valid, unexpired u.s. passport; (b) certified copy of a birth certificate filed with the state office of vital statistics or equivalent agency in the customer's state of birth; (c) consular report of birth abroad issued by the u.s. department of state, form fs-240, ds-1350 or fs-545; (d) valid, unexpired permanent resident card (form i-551) issued by the u.s. department of homeland security (dhs) or immigration and naturalization service (ins); (e) unexpired employment authorization document (form i-766/ead) issued by the dhs; (f) unexpired foreign passport with a valid unexpired u.s. visa affixed accompanied by the approved i-94 form documenting the applicant's most recent admittance into the united states; (g) certificate of naturalization issued by the dhs, form n-550 or n-570; (h) certificate of citizenship, form n-560 or n-561, issued by the dhs; or (i) an uncertified copy of a state-issued birth certificate or a hospital or other commemorative birth certificate for a birth in the state of georgia if such can be verified electronically with the records of the georgia department of public health. the driver's license, permit or identification card issued by the department shall reflect the full legal name reflected on such documentation. if a customer's name has changed from the name listed in the document presented in satisfaction of this paragraph, such change must be supported by documentation in the form of a marriage license, marriage license application, divorce decree, adoption decree, or other court order. original or certified copies of documents are required. (4) each customer may be required to provide documentation of his or her social security number in one of the following forms: (a) social security card; (b) dds approved application pursuant to paragraph (1); or (c) other approved documentation which contains the customer's social security number. (5) social security numbers provided pursuant to paragraph (4) shall be verified as required by 6 c.f.r. § 37.11(e)(2) and 6 c.f.r. § 37.13(b)(2) . this paragraph shall not apply to non-u.s. citizen customers who are not eligible for issuance of a social security number due to their ineligibility to work pursuant to their immigration status. customers claiming this exemption must provide documentation thereof from the social security administration. (6) each customer must provide two documents to substantiate residence in the state of georgia. such documents must contain the customer's name and residence address, and they must be dated by the sender or postmarked within six months prior to the date on which they are presented. renewal customers who are providing such documentation to satisfy the requirements of 6 c.f.r. § 37.11 may utilize any previously issued driver's license, permit, or identification card, and they may submit such documents electronically so long as the address reflected therein matches the address already reflected on such person's most recently issued driver's license, permit, or identification card. the following forms of documentation are examples of what can be used to satisfy the proof of residence requirement. this is not an exhaustive list as acceptable document types are subject to change. * mortgage documents * lease * military housing agreement letter * utility bills - dated within previous six months. utility bill for services installed at your residential address (water, sewer, gas, electricity, cable/satellite tv, internet, telephone/cell phone, or garbage collection). please redact account numbers. * motor vehicle information - vehicle registration or title, insurance policy or insurance card with address displayed. * documents issued by federal, state or local governments - from current or preceding calendar year (7) each customer must provide documentation of his or her citizenship or lawful status in the united states. pursuant to 6 c.f.r. § 37.3 a person has lawful status if he or she presents proof that he or she is a citizen or national of the united states; or an alien: lawfully admitted for permanent or temporary residence in the united states; with conditional permanent resident status in the united states; who has an approved application for asylum in the united states or has entered into the united states in refugee status; who has a valid nonimmigrant status in the united states; who has a pending application for asylum in the united states; who has a pending or approved application for temporary protected status (tps) in the united states; who has approved deferred action status; or who has a pending application for lawful permanent residence (lpr) or conditional permanent resident status. (a) the following documents shall suffice as proof of citizenship: (i) valid, unexpired u.s. passport; (ii) certified copy of a birth certificate filed with the state office of vital statistics or equivalent agency in the customer's state of birth; (iii) consular report of birth abroad issued by the u.s. department of state, form fs-240, ds-1350 or fs-545; (iv) certificate of naturalization issued by the dhs, form n-550 or n-570; or (v) certificate of citizenship, form n-560 or n-561, issued by the dhs. (b) a valid, unexpired permanent resident card (form i-551) issued by the dhs or uscis shall suffice as proof of lawful status in the united states. non-u.s. citizen customers whose identities are proven using an unexpired employment authorization document (form i-766/ead) issued by dhs; or an unexpired foreign passport with a valid, unexpired u.s. visa affixed accompanied by the approved i-94 form documenting the applicant's most recent admittance into the united states; or a real id driver's license or identification card issued in compliance with the standards established by 6 c.f.r. § 37.11 must also present a second verifiable document issued by the dhs or other federal agencies demonstrating lawful status as determined by uscis. all documentation of lawful status is required to be verified with the dhs' systematic alien verification for entitlements program (save) in the manner prescribed in 6 c.f.r. § 37.13 . (8) (a) the department shall not accept documents issued outside the united states except foreign passports. notwithstanding the foregoing, if a customer cannot, for reasons beyond his or her control, present any other document as proof of his or her name, including changes thereto, such documentation shall be accepted pursuant to the foregoing exception process. such documentation must be printed in english or translated into english by a professional translating service, non-profit corporation, consular official of the country of issuance, or other entity approved by the department. the original certified document and the original english translation document must be presented to the department. (b) customers who have been designated as asylees by the united states department of homeland security may satisfy the requirements for proof of identity, lawful status in the united states, and residence by providing the following: (i) original i-94 indicating asylee status; and (ii) proof of residence as set forth in paragraph (6). (c) customers who have been designated as refugees by the united states department of homeland security may satisfy the requirements for proof of identity, lawful status in the united states, and residence by providing the following: (i) if the applicant is a refugee initially placed in the state of georgia upon arrival in the united states: 1) original i-94 indicating refugee status; 2) reception and placement form identifying agency responsible for settling applicant in the state of georgia; and 3) refugee affidavit form bearing notarized signature of representative of the placement agency identified in the reception and placement form submitted to satisfy paragraph (8)(c)(i)(2) and containing applicant's residence address. the department will notarize said forms at the customer service center at which the applicant applies for said initial issuance if the placement agency does not have a notary on staff. (ii) if the applicant is a refugee age 18 or over who was initially placed in a state other than georgia upon arrival in the united states, but who has since moved to the state of georgia: 1) original i-94 indicating refugee status; 2) driver's license or identification card issued by previous state of residence; and 3) proof of residence as set forth in paragraph (6). (iii) if the applicant is a refugee under age 18 who was initially placed in a state other than georgia upon arrival in the united states, but who has since moved to the state of georgia: 1) original i-94 indicating refugee status; and 2) proof of residence as set forth in paragraph (6). (d) if the applicant is an inmate being released from a georgia department of corrections (gdc) facility and is unable to present the required two proofs of residence, he or she may prove his or her residence address by a gdc official submitting the address verification form for georgia department of corrections. the gdc official should complete this form and submit it to the department according to a mutually agreed upon protocol between the department and gdc. the completed and accepted form may serve as proof of residence. the address verification form for georgia department of corrections must be prescribed and designated by the department solely. the form shall only be submitted by a gdc official and will not be accepted if received by the department directly from the inmate (applicant) or another representative. (e) if the applicant is a probationer, parolee or person who has been released from the custody of the georgia department of corrections within the last 60 days, and he or she is unable to provide one or both documents needed to prove his or her residence, he or she may prove his or her residence address by submitting confirmation thereof from an employee of the department of corrections or the state board of pardons and paroles on the form prescribed and designated by the department. (f) if the applicant is a resident of a nursing home or other medical care facility, and he or she is unable to provide both documents needed to prove his or her residence, he or she may prove his or her residence address as the address of such nursing home or medical care facility based upon confirmation thereof from the nursing home or medical care facility on its letterhead. such confirmation must include the customer's name and date of birth, the address of the nursing home, the name and phone number of a representative thereof, and the signature of such representative. (g) if the applicant is a homeless individual, he or she may utilize the address of a homeless shelter or other service provider upon confirmation thereof from the homeless shelter or care provider. such confirmation must include the customer's name and date of birth, the address of the homeless shelter or care provider, the name and phone number of a representative thereof, and the signature of such representative. (h) if the applicant is in the care of the department of human services or the department of juvenile justice, he or she may prove his or her residence address by submitting confirmation thereof from an employee of thereof. (i) if the applicant is age 70 or more, he or she may prove his or her name and date of birth utilizing an original discharge document from the military or a statement from the social security administration containing the customer's name and date of birth. (i) if the applicant became a united states citizen pursuant to the child citizenship act of 2000 upon his or her adoption by a georgia resident, then he or she may satisfy the requirements for proving his or her identity and citizenship by presenting a state of georgia certificate of foreign birth. (k) if the applicant is age 60 or more and has held a georgia driver's license, permit, or identification card for at least 20 years prior to making application for renewal thereof, he or she may prove his or her name and date of birth utilizing an original discharge document from the military or a statement from the social security administration containing the customer's name and date of birth. (l) as provided in 6 c.f.r. part 37, if for reasons beyond the control of an applicant who has satisfied citizenship and is renewing their georgia drivers' license, permit, or identification card cannot provide an identity document, the department may accept a georgia driver's license, permit or identification card that is valid or has been expired less than two years provided it bears the name that has previously been and continues to verify through the social security administration and the applicants' photographs continue to match without incident, and use of such card is approved by an authorized managing supervisor of the department. (m) in the event a customer is unable to satisfy the documentary requirements set forth herein, he or she may propose the use of alternative documents. such requests shall contain a specific explanation of why the customer is unable to provide the documents, a showing that the alternative documents are equivalent to the documents required in the regulation and include copies of the documents proposed. the department shall not accept alternative documentation as proof of lawful status in the united states. (9) customers applying for the renewal of a driver's license, permit or identification card by means other than personal appearance, shall be authorized to do so pursuant to ga. comp. r. regs. r. . rule 375-3-1-.03 organization the field operations division of the department of driver services is composed of a division director and such additional staff as the commissioner deems necessary for the efficient operation of the division. it is the duty of this division to administer the laws with regard to the issuance of driver's licenses. rule 375-3-1-.04 licenses restricted as to use for physical impairment (1) no person who is incapacitated by reason of disease, mental or physical disability or by addiction to alcohol or drugs shall be issued a license or have their license renewed by the department. however, the department, at its discretion, may issue a license to those applicants for issuance or renewal of a license with certain physical disabilities subject to certain restrictions as follows: (a) vision. (i) no license shall be issued to any person who does not have vision of 20/60 or better and a horizontal field of vision of at least 140 degrees. if corrective lenses are necessary to meet these vision standards, the applicant may only be issued licenses restricted to operating vehicles while wearing such corrective lenses. (ii) applicants whose vision, even with corrective lenses, is 20/60 or less in one eye may only be issued licenses restricted to operating vehicles with an outside rearview mirror on the left side. (iii) in any case where the department has questions concerning a person's vision it may require a statement with respect thereto made by a physician or osteopath licensed under ga. code chap. 43-34 or under ga. code chap. 43-30 (optometrist). (b) musculoskeletal. (i) applicants with the following musculoskeletal disabilities may only be issued licenses restricted to operating vehicles equipped with special equipment as follows: 1) applicants who have either a hand or arm missing or useless may be issued licenses restricted to operating vehicles equipped with directional signals and automatic shift. 2) applicants who have either one foot or one leg missing or useless may be issued licenses restricted to operating vehicles equipped with automatic shift, hand dimmer, artificial foot pedal extension, manual brake or some combination thereof as the department may determine is necessary for the individual applicant. if the applicant's right leg is missing or useless, the license may also be restricted to operating vehicles equipped with left foot accelerator and wide brake pedal. 3) applicants with both legs missing or useless may be issued licenses restricted to operating vehicles equipped with hand dimmer switch, hand throttle and vacuum brake equipment, automatic shift, or any combination thereof as the department may determine is necessary for the individual applicant. (c) the department may add such additional restrictions or combinations of restrictions to a person's license as it may deem necessary for such person to operate a vehicle safely. (d) applicants, before being issued a restricted license, may be required to demonstrate their ability to operate a motor vehicle safely upon highways of this state. this driving demonstration shall be as required in ga. comp. r. regs. r. . (2) any applicant who is denied a license or any renewal thereof due to a mental or physical incapacity may apply to the driver license advisory board pursuant to chapter 375-3-5 of these rules for a review of their capability to operate a motor vehicle safely. (3) any person who is issued a restricted license and operates a motor vehicle contrary to the restrictions on such license shall have such license revoked. rule 375-3-1-.05 reciprocity for valid licenses issued by other jurisdictions (1) customers who hold a valid non-commercial driver's license issued by another state of the united states, the district of columbia, or territories of the united states listed in subsection (a) of this paragraph may exchange such license for a georgia driver's license of the equivalent class without completing knowledge or skills testing. if said license is expired, it must have been expired for less than two years. vision testing is required. (a) customers who hold a valid non-commercial driver's license issued by the following territories may exchange such license pursuant to paragraph (1): i. puerto rico ii. guan iii. us virgin islands iv. american samoa v. northern mariana island vi. saipan (b) exchanges pursuant to paragraph (1)(a) apply to non-commercial licenses; (c) the driver's license issued by another jurisdiction pursuant to paragraph (1) must be surrendered. (2) if a customer is unable to surrender his or her non-commercial driver's license issued from another state of the united states, the district of columbia, or territories of the united states listed in subsection (1)(a) of this paragraph at the time of making application for a georgia driver's license, the department shall accept a certified copy of his or her driving record from the previous state of issuance as documentation thereof. such driving record must have been issued within thirty (30) days of the date of such customer's application for a georgia driver's license. (3) customers who hold a valid non-commercial instructional permit issued by another state of the united states, the district of columbia, or territories of the united states listed in subsection (1)(a) of this paragraph must successfully complete the georgia knowledge examination for such class of license and a vision test in order to be issued a georgia instructional permit in the same or comparable class. (4) customers age sixteen (16) who are applying for issuance of a class d non-commercial license pursuant to this regulation may satisfy the requirement for submission of a certificate of completion of an approved driver's education course using an out-of-state program under the following circumstances: (a) he or she was the dependent of active duty military personnel assigned to a base in such jurisdiction at the time the out-of-state course was completed; (b) the driver's education course was taken at a facility or program licensed by such jurisdiction; (c) the course completed was equivalent in scope, length and content to that approved by the department for programs located in the state of georgia; and (d) the certificate of completion indicates that the course was completed within (12) months of the date on which such customer makes application for a class d non-commercial driver's license. (5) customers who hold a valid non-commercial driver's license issued by a foreign country that currently maintains a reciprocity agreement with the state of georgia may exchange such license for a georgia class c driver's license without completing knowledge or skill testing. vision testing is required. the department shall verify with the country, either by letter issued by an authorized representative of the country or electronically, that the license was issued to the applicant and that the non-commercial privileges are in good standing. rule 375-3-1-.06 vision examination (1) a vision examination is an essential part of every application for any class of license or instructional permit. an applicant must meet the minimum standards established by ga. comp. r. regs. r. . (2) in lieu of a departmental vision examination the applicant may submit proof that they have undergone a vision examination, within twenty-four (24) months immediately preceding the application for the license, that demonstrates that they have met the minimum vision standards established by ga. comp. r. regs. r. . such examination must have been conducted by a duly licensed physician, optometrist, or ophthalmologist. (3) persons under age sixty-four (64) authorized by the department to renew a driver's license by means other than by personal appearance are exempt from this requirement unless their vision has changed. in such case, they would have to comply with paragraph (2) or visit in person. rule 375-3-1-.07 knowledge tests (1) applicants for all classes of licenses and non-commercial instruction permits must receive a grade of at least 75 points out of a possible 100 on the appropriate test examining their understanding of official traffic control devices, knowledge of safe driving practices and the traffic laws of georgia. the applicant will be considered to have failed the examination for cheating on any portion of the tests. (2) for motorcycle permits (mp), the knowledge test score shall be valid for one (1) calendar year. (3) the mp is valid for six (6) months from the date of issuance and is limited to one renewal. rule 375-3-1-.08 oral examination the knowledge exam may be administered orally by an examiner, other department of driver services staff, or mechanical device supplied by the department of driver services to those who are applying for a driver's license and express a need for such an accommodation due to learning disabilities or other limitations that do not include vision or cognitive impairment. the test will be equivalent to the written version of the knowledge exam and the minimum passing grade shall be the same. an accommodation of an oral examination may require the customer to schedule a reservation prior to being administered the oral exam. rule 375-3-1-.09 sequence for prerequisites to driving demonstration (1) applicants for licenses and instruction permits of all classes are required to pass the eye examination before being permitted to take the appropriate knowledge tests. (2) applicants for licenses of all classes are required to pass the appropriate knowledge tests before being permitted to demonstrate driving ability. rule 375-3-1-.10 driving ability demonstration (1) an applicant for a class c license shall be tested on their ability to perform basic driving patterns to show their ability to exercise ordinary and reasonable control in the operation of a motor vehicle and to drive safely with traffic. (2) an applicant for a class c license shall be immediately disqualified on his driving ability test for the following: (a) accident, however slight, including contact with another motor vehicle, except slight bumper to bumper; contact with pedestrian; or contact with other property, including running off road into shrubbery or lawns, unless in the opinion of the examiner, the applicant was entirely blameless. (b) any act considered dangerous, including actions which require defensive driving by another to prevent an accident or dodging by a pedestrian, or which requires the observer to aid in controlling the motor vehicle; stalling motor vehicle in a busy intersection; or driving two wheels over curb or onto sidewalk. (c) traffic law violation, including any act for which the applicant could be arrested; or any act which might make the applicant liable for damages in case of an accident. (d) lack of cooperation or refusal to perform, including refusal to try a maneuver; offering bribes or gratuities; arguing about score. (3) an applicant for a class c license shall be disqualified on his driving ability test if he or she does not pass a driving skills test as prescribed by dds through its field operations policy. a passing score is 75 points or more out of a possible 100 on the relevant parts of this subsection. administering the driving demonstration test necessarily involves the examiner's discretion and circumstances may require modification of both duration and method of the test. (4) motorcycle class m. (a) an applicant for a class m non-commercial license shall be required to achieve a passing grade on the appropriate parts of subsection (2) and all other relevant class m tests. class m tests will include, but are not limited to, the following: identification of controls on the test vehicle; removal of feet from footpegs when necessary. (b) an applicant for a class m license shall be immediately disqualified under those circumstances specified under sub-section (1). (5) applicants for licenses for vehicles in classes a or b (non-commercial) must have a minimum of three (3) months and/or 3,000 miles experience in the vehicles of the class for which licensing is sought, or having successfully completed a commercial driver training course for the class of license sought, prior to the issuance of such a license. such experience must be gained while applicant is in possession of a valid instructional permit for the appropriate class. no demonstration of driving ability is required. however, the applicant must present an affidavit from his employer establishing the requisite experience and ability to operate the vehicles within the particular class a or b non-commercial license. applicants who are self-employed may self-certify. rule 375-3-1-.11 test vehicle (1) demonstration of driving ability shall be in a motor vehicle furnished by the applicant. no such demonstration shall be made if the motor vehicle lacks or has defective brakes with brake pedal coming within two inches (2") of the floorboard, unless the vehicle is equipped with power brakes. the vehicle shall also be equipped with a horn, rearview mirror, proper steering mechanism which does not have more than three inches (3") of play, directional signals if such are to be used, all required exterior lights, and a valid license plate. (2) if the applicant is physically impaired, the motor vehicle which the applicant uses must be equipped with the special equipment required in rule . (3) for all driver skills tests administered by the department of driver services, the driver of the vehicle must be in actual physical control of the control/driving system. the purpose of the driver skills test is to evaluate the driver's demonstration of their ability to operate a motor vehicle. the vehicle furnished by the applicant must allow the driver to demonstrate his or her ability to operate the motor vehicle independent of automated convenience features. (4) dds will only administer a class c driving skills test in a four-wheeled vehicle equipped with steering wheel for directional control. rule 375-3-1-.12 re-examination upon failure (1) any applicant for a driver's license of any class, with the exception of cdl, who fails any part of the driving examination may re-attempt the examination according to the following schedule: (a) first failure--after the first failure the applicant must wait until the next day before retaking those parts of the driving examination that were failed earlier (b) second or subsequent failure--after the second failure the applicant must wait seven (7) calendar days before retaking those parts of the driving examination that were failed earlier. (c) reserved. (2) any failure of any part of the examination may equal failure of the complete examination for that testing day. rule 375-3-1-.13 changes to customer information (1) a person may have the following personal data modified on his or her driver's license, permit, or identification card upon presentation of satisfactory documentation supporting the change as indicated: (a) date of birth - submission of any document accepted as proof of identity pursuant to ga. admin. comp. ch. . (b) social security number - original social security card or other original documentation from the social security administration verifying the correct social security number. (c) u.s. citizenship status - submission of any document accepted as proof of citizenship pursuant to ga. admin. comp. ch. . (d) residence or mailing address - submission of any document accepted as proof of georgia residency pursuant to ga. admin. comp. ch. . (2) a person may have the following personal data modified on a driver's license, permit, or identification card by self-certifying that the requested change is correct on the license/permit/id application: (a) eye color (b) height (c) weight (d) primary or secondary telephone number (3) a person requesting a change to the information recorded on his or her driving record and/or printed on his or her driver's license, permit, or identification card shall surrender all previously issued driver's licenses, permits, or identification cards in their possession and shall be required to pay either the renewal license fee or a duplicate or update fee, whichever is applicable. no rebate will be given for any license, permit, or identification cards surrendered. (4) in all cases the decision to change customer personal data on the license, permit, or identification card is at the discretion of the department based on a review of the documents provided to determine their validity and authenticity. (5) changes to a customer's information as provided in paragraphs (1)(d) or (2) may be processed remotely. changes to the information listed in paragraphs (1)(a) through (c) must be processed in person. rule 375-3-1-.14 verification of customer information. revised (1) any information provided by a customer pursuant to any provision of these regulations or under the auspices of a code section contained within chapter 5 of title 40 of the official code of georgia annotated relating to the issuance, renewal, reinstatement of a driver's license, permit, or identification card or other services provided by department is subject to verification. (2) the department shall make copies or digital images of any documents presented by a customer for such purposes for use in such verification. all such documents shall be retained for no less than ten (10) years. (3) imaged documents shall be considered part of the customer's driving record and accessible only pursuant to the provisions of o.c.g.a. §. (4) in the event the department is unable to verify information provided pursuant to the requirements of o.c.g.a. § 19-11-9.1 , the dds shall initiate a cancellation of such customer's driver's license, permit or identification card as provided in o.c.g.a. § 40-5-50 . such cancellation shall be made effective no more than 120 days from the date on which the information was provided by the customer as reflected in the records of the department. rule 375-3-1-.15 photographs on cards or credentials issued by the department (a) each driver's license, permit, or identification card issued by the department shall contain a photograph of the person depicted therein for identification purposes; (b) the photograph shall contain a depiction of the applicant's face from crown to the base of the chin, from ear-to-ear, and shall be clearly visible and free of shadows. any covering of the head or face in the photograph is prohibited. (c) exceptions. (1) any head or facial covering in the photograph is prohibited unless the covering is required for religious purposes or required for medical purposes; (2) for religious exceptions, a sworn statement on a form approved by the department must be submitted by the applicant verifying that the covering is worn daily for religious purposes; (3) for medical exceptions, other than eyewear, a signed doctor's statement must be submitted by the applicant verifying that covering or item is required daily for medical purposes; (d) any covering of the face or head for religious or medical reasons must not obscure any facial features and not generate shadow in the photograph; and such covering must be adjusted to allow a full-faced photograph. (e) except as provided in section (c) of this rule, any covering or alterations of the head or face, including but not limited to headphones, wireless devices, disguises, hats, or costumes, shall not be visible in the photograph. (f) the department shall endeavor to accommodate persons objecting to being viewed or photographed by an employee of the opposite sex by having the photograph taken by a member of the same sex or by arranging for a private photograph at the department's headquarters. (g) the department shall require a retake of any photograph that it determines is not in compliance with the requirements of this rule and may refuse to issue a driver's license, permit, or identification card to any person who fails to comply with the requirements of this rule. rule 375-3-1-.16 eligibility for veterans' or honorary driver's license and identification card (1) (a) veterans', or honorary driver's licenses and identification cards which have the "veteran" designation with the american flag symbol printed on said driver's license or identification card, shall be issued to veterans who have satisfied all other requirements for issuance of a driver's license upon receipt by the department of a certificate of eligibility issued by the georgia department of veterans service or by presenting their armed forces separation papers (dd-214) with an acceptable separation/discharge. (b) a veteran of the united states armed forces or united states allies must present evidence of the following: (i) residence: 1) a veteran must be a resident of the state of georgia at the time of application for the license; and (ii) service: 1) a veteran must have served in the active military, naval, or air service; and 2) a veteran must have been discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable. 3) a member of the national guard or reserve forces who has served twenty (20) years of creditable service. (2) a surviving spouse, of a deceased veteran, who would have been eligible for a veterans' license shall follow the procedure in paragraph (1) and may then be issued an honorary license. the surviving spouse is eligible for such license as long as they have not remarried. (3) a spouse of a veteran who is or would have been eligible for a veteran's license but has been disabled to the extent that he or she is unable to operate a motor vehicle safely, shall acquire an honorary license by having the disabled veteran surrender his license to the department, or if he or she has no license notify the department of his disability. such surrender of license or notification must be accompanied by a letter from a physician evidencing the disability. the applicant shall then follow the procedure set out in paragraph (1). (4) once eligibility is established pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (3) the licensee need not reestablish eligibility. (5) any customer who would be eligible for a free driver's license under the provisions of this regulation shall also be eligible for an identification card at no charge. rule 375-3-1-.17 changing gender on license (1) a person may have the gender designation on their driver's license changed after a gender reassignment operation upon the presentation to a driver examiner of either a court order reflecting such change, or a physician's letter certifying such change. the letter or court order shall state the person's name and date of birth, and the date of gender reassignment operation, as well as other identifying information. (2) a person applying under subsection (1) shall surrender all licenses in their possession and shall be required to pay either the renewal license fee or a duplicate license fee, whichever is applicable. no rebate will be given for any licenses surrendered. (3) in all cases the decision to change the gender designation on the license is at the discretion of the department. rule 375-3-1-.18 national driver register in every instance the applicant will be validated through the national driver register and the problem driver pointer system (pdps). if they are found to be in suspension, revocation, or cancellation in their former licensing jurisdiction, then their georgia driver's license will subsequently be suspended, revoked, or cancelled. applicable consequences will be applied to the driving privilege as required by law. rule 375-3-1-.19 testing and mvr requirements after expiration of license (1) testing (a) if a customer's most recent license, from georgia or another state of the united states, the district of columbia, or territory of the united states listed in ga. comp. r. regs. r. , is expired more than two (2) years, the customer must pass the vision exam, knowledge exams, and driving skills test in order to obtain a new driver's license in the state of georgia. (b) if a customer's most recent license is from another state of the united states, the district of columbia, or territory of the united states listed in ga. comp. r. regs. r. and is valid or has been expired for less than two (2) years, the customer must only pass a vision exam in order to obtain a new equivalent driver's license in the state of georgia. (c) if a customer's previously issued georgia driver's license has been expired for less than two (2) years, and the customer is not required by law to complete a vision exam, no driving skills test or knowledge exam is required in order to obtain a new driver's license in the state of georgia. (2) motor vehicle report/driving history (a) any customer whose most recent license is from another state of the united states, the district of columbia, or territory of the united states listed in ga. comp. r. regs. r. and the card is lost or stolen, must provide a motor vehicle report (mvr) dated within sixty (60) days. rule 375-3-1-.20 inmate drivers certificate any warden or superintendent wishing an inmate to be certified pursuant to o.c.g.a. § 40-5-21(7) , as amended, must meet the following requirements: (a) all driver's licenses and instructional permits issued to such inmate must be surrendered to the department prior to the issuance of the inmate drivers certificate; (b) no inmate shall be issued an inmate drivers certificate if such inmate is currently under a departmental or court imposed suspension, cancellation or revocation; (c) the warden or superintendent of the institution requesting that an inmate be issued an inmate drivers certificate shall file with the department a completed application form prior to the issuance of such certificate; (d) each inmate requesting such certificate must pass all examinations required by law for the particular class of certificate applied for: (e) an inmate drivers certificate shall be valid for four (4) years or until such time as the inmate is transferred, paroled, pardoned or released from the institution which requested the issuance of such certificate, whichever period of time is shorter; (f) the inmate certificate will also be cancellable at the request of the warden or superintendent of the penal institution which requested the inmate be issued the certificate designated in this rule. (g) the inmate certificate shall contain the following information: georgia department of driver services application for inmate drivers certificate part i--driver information: (please print) name ____________________ current ga. lic. # (last) (first) (middle) date of birth _________________ soc. sec. # _____________ name of correctional institution _____________________ address ___________________________________________________ (p.o. box) (street) (city) (state) (zip code) signature ____________________ date ______________________ note--your driving record will be checked. if you are under suspension or revocation this certificate will not be issued. all licenses in your possession must be surrendered upon issuance of inmate certificate. each inmate requesting such certificate must pass all examinations (vision, written, and driving) required by law for the particular class of certificate applied for, unless successfully completed within sixty (60) days prior to application. part ii--certification by warden or superintendent i hereby certify the above named person to be an inmate of said institution. i realize that i may cancel the certificate at any time. further, i affirm that i will receive from the inmate and return to the department of driver services such certificate upon the inmate's transfer, parole, pardon, or release. signed__________________________ title ___________________________ date ________ part iii--cancellation of inmate driver's certificate name of inmate ____________________________________________ certificate number ______________________________________ date of birth _______________ soc. sec. # _________________ name of correctional institution _____________________ address ___________________________________________________ (p.o. box) (street) (city) (state) (zip code) this will certify that the inmate named herein is no longer the holder of such driver's certificate issued on (date) ____________________ due to: (check one) ____ cancellation ____ parole ____ transfer ____ release ____ pardon ____ other (specify)__________________________ such certificate number ____________________ is enclosed. signed____________________ title________________________ date ____________ mail this certification form and certificate to department of driver services, p. o. box 80447, conyers, georgia 30013. (h) it shall be the responsibility of the warden or superintendent of the penal institution in which the inmate is incarcerated to secure the surrender of such certificate and return such certificate to the department upon the inmate's transfer, parole, pardon or release. rule 375-3-1-.21 distinctive driver's license, permit, and identification card for persons under age twenty-one (21) all driver's licenses, permits, and identification cards issued to applicants under age twenty-one (21) shall have a vertical format and "under 21" printed on the card. after having attained twenty-one (21) years of age, the holder of any such distinctive license, permit, or identification card may obtain a new card which shall not be distinctive. rule 375-3-1-.22 disposition of dui citation (1) court copy - the driver's license shall be attached to the court copy and forwarded to court having jurisdiction. (2) department of driver services copy - this copy shall be forwarded to the department of driver services within ten (10) days of issuance. (3) citations may also be sent to the department of driver services electronically through georgia electronic conviction processing system. (4) violator's copy - this copy is given to the violator. (5) officer's copy - this copy will be kept in the issuing agency's file to issue a duplicate copy if needed. rule 375-3-1-.23 application for personal identification cards (1) georgia identification cards are available to georgia residents only. any georgia resident, as defined in o.c.g.a. §, applying for an identification card shall provide to the department the information as specified in o.c.g.a. § 40-5-100 . (2) (a) individuals with out-of-state driver's licenses may not obtain a georgia identification card and maintain the out-of-state license. in order for these individuals to obtain a georgia identification card, they must either obtain a georgia driver's license prior to the issuance of the identification card or surrender the out-of-state license to the examiner at the time the identification card is issued. (b) in order for these customers to be issued a georgia driver's license at a later date, they must take and pass the road skills test. (3) customers who previously have been issued an identification card or driver's license in another country may retain said identification card or driver's license. the department shall make a notation on the customer's driving record that the foreign driver's license or identification card was retained, and this notation shall be made available to law enforcement officers via the georgia crime information center. (4) the department shall collect a fee as listed in ga. comp. r. regs. r. . (5) (a) all non-profit organizations referring anyone to the department for an identification card shall provide that individual with a copy of an agreement previously entered into with the department whereby such organization verifies that the individual applying for such identification card is indigent. (b) it shall be the responsibility of the non-profit organization to provide the department with an agreement. upon approval by the department and the non-profit organization, the department may accept a copy of the agreement from the indigent referred by the non-profit organization in order to provide the identification card to the individual at a reduced fee of $5.00. (6) (a) any license, permit or identification card that is intended to be compliant with the requirements of 49 u.s.c. § 30301 note and 6 c.f.r. § 37.01, et seq. shall contain the information or design requirements set forth therein. (b) no person may be issued a license, permit or identification card that is compliant with paragraph (a), supra, while he or she retains another such card. customers are eligible for issuance of non-compliant cards in addition to the compliant card. similarly, a customer may switch from one type of compliant card to another by surrendering the compliant card that is no longer desired and paying a replacement fee. rule 375-3-1-.24 name on license or identification card every driver's license or identification card shall be issued in the full legal name of the applicant as reflected on his or her birth certificate except as follows: (1) (a) customers whose surnames have changed by reason of a marriage that occurred in the state of georgia prior to november 1, 1982 may obtain a driver's license or identification card bearing the married surname upon submission of a certified copy of a marriage license or state-issued marriage certificate for the marriage; (b) 1. except as provided in subparagraph (1)(b)(2), infra, customers whose surnames have changed by reason of a marriage that occurred in the state of georgia on or after november 1, 1982 may obtain a driver's license or identification card bearing the married surname upon submission of a certified copy of a marriage license application, marriage license or state-issued marriage certificate for the marriage; 2. in order to utilize a hyphenated surname based upon a marriage that occurred in the state of georgia on or after november 1, 1982, the customer must present a certified copy of the marriage license application reflecting the selection of the hyphenated surname; (c) customers whose surnames have changed by reason of a marriage that occurred outside the state of georgia may obtain a driver's license or identification card in the married surname upon submission of a certified copy of a marriage license application, marriage license or state-issued marriage certificate for the marriage; (2) customers whose names have changed by reason of adoption may obtain a driver's license or identification card in the adoptive name upon submission of a certified copy of an adoption certificate or order reflecting the adoption and change of name; (3) customers whose surnames have changed by reason of divorce may obtain a driver's license or identification card in the new name upon submission of a certified copy of the divorce decree reflecting the change of surname; (4) customers whose names have changed for any other reason may obtain a driver's license or identification card in the new name upon submission of a certified copy of the court order granting the change of name. (5) the driver's license or identification card issued to any customer who proves his or her identity by utilizing a document that is acceptable pursuant to ga. admin. comp. ch. other than a birth certificate will be issued in the name reflected upon said document unless that name has been changed via one of the means listed in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this regulation. (6) any name used by a customer must be electronically verifiable with the records for that customer maintained by the social security administration. (7) any customer using a valid united states passport to prove his or her full legal name need not provide any other documentation thereof even if the name reflected on such passport is not the customer's birth name. rule 375-3-1-.25 restricted instructional permit for child with disabled parent. revised (1) (a) any child age fourteen (14) whose parent or guardian is medically incapable of being license to operate a motor vehicle due to a visual impairment may apply for a restricted class p instructional permit. (b) the application for such restricted instructional permit shall be submitted on a form promulgated by the department and must be accompanied by the following: 1. documentation from the physician for the parent or guardian confirming the existence of the visual impairment; 2. a photocopy of the georgia identification card issued to the parent or guardian, or documentation of his or her residency at the child's address sufficient to meet the requirements for proof of residency under ga. admin. comp. ch. ; and 3. such other documentation as the department shall deem necessary. (c) upon issuance of a restricted instructional permit, the child may operate a noncommercial class c motor vehicle when accompanied by the disabled parent or guardian, or with a person who is at least twenty-one (21) years old and who holds a valid commercial or non-commercial driver's license. (2) (a) any child age fifteen (15) or older whose parent or guardian is medically incapable of being license to operate a motor vehicle and has been issued an identification card containing the international handicapped symbol may apply for a restricted class p instructional permit. (b) the application for such restricted instructional permit shall be submitted on a form promulgated by the department and must be accompanied by the following: 1. a photocopy of the georgia identification card issued to the parent or guardian; 2. documentation reflecting that such parent or guardian previously held a valid driver's license in the state of georgia, another state, or the district of columbia; and 3. such other documentation as the department shall deem necessary. (c) upon issuance of a restricted instructional permit, the child may operate a noncommercial class c motor vehicle when accompanied by the disabled parent or guardian or with a person who is at least twenty-one (21) years old and who holds a valid commercial or noncommercial driver's license. rule 375-3-1-.26 non-commercial class e and f driver's licenses (1) any resident who wishes to operate a class a or b motor vehicle who is not required to possess a commercial driver's license to do so must obtain a non-commercial class e or f driver's license. examples of individuals who would be eligible to operate a class a or b motor vehicle with a non-commercial class e or f driver's license include, but are not limited to, agricultural vehicles, military vehicles, and firefighting apparatus or emergency vehicles. (2) to be eligible for a non-commercial class e or f driver's license, a person must meet the following requirements: (a) be at least 18 years of age; (b) possess a valid class c driver's license; (c) successfully complete any knowledge examinations applicable for the class of vehicle to be operated; (d) pass a vision exam. the minimum acceptable vision is 20/60 in one eye, with or without corrective lenses, and a field of vision of at least 140 degrees: and (e) submit a driving affidavit (form ds-36) attesting to a minimum of 3 months or 3,000 miles of driving experience has been completed in a vehicle which represents the license class. if an applicant does not possess the requisite driving experience, he or she may be issued an instructional permit in the appropriate class upon successful completion of the knowledge examination as provided in paragraph (c), supra. rule 375-3-1-.27 proving identity using a birth certificate from puerto rico (1) in accordance with article 6 of law 191 of 2009 (as amended by law 68 of 2010), puerto rico governor luis g. fortuño signed an executive order extending the validity of all puerto rico birth certificates issued before july 1, 2010 until october 30, 2010. according to the laws of puerto rico, only the new puerto rico birth certificates issued from july 1, 2010 onward will remain valid. effective january 1, 2011, the department shall not accept a birth certificate issued in puerto rico prior to july 1, 2010 as proof of a customer's identity for any purpose. rule 375-3-1-.28 requests for medical alert information (1) (a) any person who has been diagnosed with a medical condition, illness or disorder named herein may request to have a notation of such diagnosis placed on his or her driver's license, permit, or identification card. (b) the following conditions, illnesses, and disorders may be recorded on a driver's license, permit, or identification card as medical alert information at the request of the customer: 1. post traumatic stress disorder; 2. diabetes; 3. heart conditions; 4. epilepsy; 5. drug allergies; 6. alzheimers or dementia 7. physical disability 8. vision loss 9. pacemaker 10. lung disease 11. hearing loss 12. autism 13. renal condition 14. seizures 15. hemophilia 16. developmental disability 17. brain injury 18. mental health disability; and 19. other conditions as approved by the commissioner or his/her designee. (2) any person requesting the inclusion of a medical alert notation on his or her driver's license, permit, or identification card shall submit an application form to include a waiver of liability for the release of any medical information to the department, any person who is eligible under o.c.g.a. for access to such medical information as recorded on the person's driving record, and any other person who may view or receive notice of such medical information by virtue of having seen such person's driver's license, permit, or identification card. such application shall advise the person that he or she will be consenting to the release of such medical information to anyone who sees or copies his or her driver's license, permit, or identification card even if such person is otherwise ineligible to access to such medical information under state and/or federal law. (3) such application shall include space for a person requesting the inclusion of a medical alert notation on his or her driver's license, permit, or identification card to obtain a sworn statement from a person licensed to practice medicine or psychology in this state verifying such diagnosis. (4) any person who has been issued a driver's license, permit, or identification card bearing medical alert information may be issued a replacement driver's license, permit, or identification card excluding such medical alert information at his or her request and upon payment the fee provided in o.c.g.a. 40-5-31 for replacement of lost licenses. (5) (a) no medical alert information shall be printed on or removed from a driver's license, permit or identification card without the express consent of the customer. (b) if the customer is a child under the age of eighteen (18), consent for the printing of medical alert information shall be provided by the parent or guardian of the child when he or she signs the application for the driver's license, permit or identification card as required by o.c.g.a. 40-5-26 . (c) if the customer is an incapacitated adult, consent for the printing of medical alert information shall be given by the guardian of such adult as appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction. rule 375-3-1-.29 replacement of lost, stolen, or destroyed cards (1) customers who are real id compliant and only hold a regular non-commercial driver's license or permit, or identification card may apply for replacement of a lost, stolen, or destroyed card via electronic means. (2) customers who are real id compliant and applying in-person for replacement of a lost, stolen, or destroyed license, permit, or identification card may be asked to provide proof of their identity using one of the documents listed in ga. comp. r. regs. r. or proof of the following: (a) social security number; and (b) address (3) customers who are not real id compliant must apply in-person for replacement of a lost, stolen, or destroyed license, permit, or identification card and provide the required documents listed in ga. comp. r. regs. r. . (4) non-u.s. citizen customers must apply in-person for replacement of a lost, stolen, or destroyed card and provide proof of their identity using one of the documents listed in ga. comp. r. regs. r. or the following: (a) copy of receipt for replacement immigration document containing uscis a# (5) non-u.s. citizen customers must be verified through save (systematic alien verification for entitlements) and will be issued a replacement credential with an expiration date not to exceed the length of their authorized stay in the united states, and in accordance with dds rules and regulations. rule 375-3-1-.30 exceptions process (1) the department adheres to the general assembly's position that "the strict application of rules can lead to unreasonable, uneconomical, and unintended results in particular instances" and authorized all state agencies to grant waivers from administrative regulations when the application of a particular provision imposes a substantial hardship upon an individual as set forth in o.c.g.a. § 50-13-9.1 . the term "substantial hardship" is defined as "a significant, unique, and demonstrable economic, technological, legal, or other type of hardship to the person requesting a variance or waiver which impairs the ability of the person to continue to function in the regulated practice or business." o.c.g.a. § 50-13-9.1(b)(1) . customers may petition for waivers of any administrative rule applicable to their individual situations. (2) customers must submit petitions for rule waivers in writing. such petitions must contain the following elements: (a) the rule from which a variance or waiver is requested; (b) the type of action requested; (c) the specific facts of substantial hardship which would justify a variance or waiver for the petitioner, including the alternative standards which the person seeking the variance or waiver agrees to meet and a showing that such alternative standards will afford adequate protection for the public health, safety, and welfare; and (d) the reason why the variance or waiver requested would serve the purpose of the underlying statute. (3) if the waiver relates to the documentary requirements of ga. comp. r. regs. , the customer is encouraged to include copies of the alternative documents proposed to prove his or her identity, citizenship or residency. suggested records include, but are not limited to, their parents' birth and death certificates, children's birth and death certificates, school records, employment records, business records, court records, church records, tax records, census records, bank records, driving records from other jurisdictions, and other similar material. if he or she has have ever been issued a driver's license or identification card in the state of georgia or in any other state, the petition should address the whereabouts of these documents. (4) waiver petitions must be posted for at least fifteen (15) days before voted on by the board of driver services. waiver petitions will be resolved within sixty (60) days unless prevented by unavoidable delay. rule 375-3-1-.31 satisfaction of school requirements for customers under age eighteen (18) (1) any customer under age eighteen (18) who is applying for a driver's license or instructional permit shall provide satisfactory documentation of his or her enrollment in school. documents that will satisfy this requirement must contain the first and last name of the customer. these documents include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) form ds-1, certificate of school enrollment. the form must be completed and dated within the past six (6) months. (b) transcript provided by the customer's most recent school of attendance. (c) most recent progress or grade report. (d) current school identification card issued by the school or school system. (e) other forms of school identification. (2) customers under age eighteen (18) who are home-schooled may satisfy the school requirements of o.c.g.a. § 40-5-22 by supplying a certificate of enrollment from the georgia department of education or a declaration of intent to utilize a home study program filed with the georgia department of education. rule 375-3-1-.32 eligibility for active-duty national guard driver's license and identification card national guard driver's licenses shall be issued free of charge by the department to any guardsman who meets the requirements of o.c.g.a. § 40-5-36 . each guardsman shall present to any driver's license examiner a completed certificate of eligibility for georgia national guard driver's license. the national guard driver's license shall be valid for eight (8) years or until the department receives written notice from the adjutant general, or his agent, that the guardsman is no longer a member of the georgia national guard in good standing. rule 375-3-1-.33 term of receipt for online issuance (a) when a customer completes an online license or permit issuance event (issuance, renewal, replacement, or reinstatement), and the license status is shown as valid, a receipt will be available for printing by the customer, and will be sent via email to the customer. (b) said receipt may be presented to law enforcement personnel for a period of forty-five (45) days to meet the requirement of having a driver's license in the driver's immediate possession while operating a motor vehicle when valid driving privileges have been confirmed by either the department or the georgia crime information center (gcic), pursuant to o.c.g.a. § 40-5-29 . rule 375-3-1-.34 applications of minors 1. the application of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years for an identification card, instruction permit, or driver's license must be signed and verified by a parent or guardian of the applicant before a person authorized to administer oaths or, in the event there is no parent or guardian, by another responsible adult. 2. for purposes of this rule, the term "responsible adult" shall mean a person who is eighteen (18) years of age or older, competent to verify the application, and has personal knowledge of the applicant. a. a person who may qualify as a responsible adult may include, but not necessarily be limited to: i. a social worker who has worked with or assisted the applicant; ii. an employee of a homeless shelter where the applicant has resided; iii. a step-parent of the applicant, as verified by a valid marriage license or certificate, or other such document demonstrating that the step­parent is married to a parent of the applicant; iv. such other persons whose identity can be verified by a state agency or official school official or certified school records, or documentation from a federal agency or entity 3. for an applicant committed to the care, custody, or control of the department of human services (dhs) or the department of juvenile justice (djj), a responsible adult may bean employee of the division of family and children services of the department of human services (dfcs), an employee of djj, or an employee of a child-caring institution or a group-facility, as defined in o.c.g.a. § 49-5-3 , or a caregiver, as defined in o.c.g.a. § 49-5-3 . such responsible adult must also submit employee identification to verify employment. 4. the person who signs as the responsible adult for a minor or person under eighteen (18) years of age will be asked to submit a state issued identification card or other documents to verify or confirm his or her identity. a person who is a responsible adult based on his or her employment must also submit an employee identification card to verify employment. 5. in conjunction with the application, the department may require the responsible adult to submit an affidavit stating the responsible adult's relationship to the minor and reasons why a parent or guardian is unable to sign and verify the application. reliable documentation showing why a parent or guardian is unable to sign and verify the application may also be required. 6. an emancipated minor, who can show court documentation to verify emancipation, is not required to have a parent, guardian, or responsible adult sign or verify the application of the emancipated minor. 7. a minor or person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age is not required to have a parent, guardian, or responsible adult sign or verify their application for identification card, instruction permit, or driver's license if the minor: a. is validly married; b. is on active duty with the armed forces of the united states c. is emancipated by court order pursuant to a petition filed with a juvenile court rule 375-3-1-.35 open records requests (1) all open records requests must be made in accordance with o.c.g.a. § 50-18-70 et. seq. open records requests to the department of driver services shall be submitted and addressed to the open records office. (a) requests shall be submitted to the open records office via only one of the following methods: (i) e-mail to: ddsopenrecords@dds.ga.gov; (ii) fax to: (678) 413-8773; (iii) or by u.s. mail to: legal division attn: open records office department of driver services p.o. box 80447 conyers, georgia 30013 (2) the request should include the requestor's name, mailing address, contact telephone number, e-mail address (if available), and list of records requested. (3) dds will provide a response within a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed three business days of receiving the written request addressed to the open records office. (a) in accordance with the open records act a reasonable fee may be charged for search, redactions, retrieval, production, copying and other direct administrative costs for fulfillment of the request. (b) driving histories, motor vehicle records (mvr), and other personal information maintained by dds are not subject to open records. (4) the release of all information maintained by dds will be limited by provisions set forth in state and federal law. rule 375-3-1-.36 fees for driver's licenses, instruction permits, identification cards, and temporary driving permits (1) for each application for an instruction permit or driver's license, except as provided in o.c.g.a. § 40-5-25(b)(2) , the department shall collect fees as follows: (a) for instruction permits for classes c, e, f, and m drivers' licenses and for class d drivers' licenses.............. $10.00 (b) for up to five-year classes c, e, f, and m noncommercial drivers' licenses............................. $20.00 (c) for eight-year classes c, e, f, and m noncommercial drivers' licenses.................................................. $32.00 (d) for application for classes a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses or a class p commercial driver's instruction permit........ $35.00 (e) for class p commercial drivers' instruction permits for classes a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses................... $10.00 (f) for up to five-year classes a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses, initial issuance requiring a road test........... $70.00 (g) for eight-year classes a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses, initial issuance requiring a road test........... $82.00 (h) for up to five-year classes a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses, initial issuance not requiring a road test....... $20.00 (i) for eight-year classes a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses, initial issuance not requiring a road test....... $32.00 (j) for renewal of up to five-year classes a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses................... $20.00 (k) for renewal of eight-year class a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses.......................... $32.00 (l) for renewal of up to five-year classes c, e, f, and m noncommercial drivers' licenses............................ $20.00 (m) for renewal of eight-year classes c, e, f, and m noncommercial drivers' licenses.............................. $32.00 (n) initial issuance of classes a, b, c, and m commercial drivers' licenses and class p commercial drivers' instruction permits shall include all endorsement fees within the license fee. each endorsement added after initial licensing.......................... $5.00 (o) issuance of temporary driving permit or identification card issued pursuant to o.c.g.a. § 40-5-21.1 .......... $50.00 (2) for each application for a personal identification card, the department shall collect a fee of $20.00 or $32.00 except as provided in o.c.g.a. §§ 40-5-103(b),(c), and (d) . (3) customers may request a refund in-person from the department at a customer service center (csc), by telephone through the dds contact center, or by mail to the department. (a) refunds must be requested via a completed dds designated "request for refund" form with the original payment receipt, or payment confirmation if paid online or through the mobile application (app). (b) refunds will be considered in the following circumstances: 1. overpayment of fees; 2. ineligibility for als hearings; 3. errors by a csc team member; 4. duplicate payments for one transaction or service; 5. reinstatement paid pre-effective date; 6. incorrect purchase (only if the refund is requested prior to the purchased card being processed); or 7. if the payment is more than $10.00. (c) customers who submit payments online or by mobile app are eligible for refunds until midnight of the day of purchase. (d) processing time for refund requests may take up to 30 calendar days from the date of the refund request. (e) a refund request submitted 120 days or more after the fee was paid will not be processed and the refund will not be made. (f) refunds may be delivered to the payer or customer electronically or by mail. (g) refunds will be delivered to the payer if payment is made in any form other than cash. cash payments will be refunded by check to the customer of record for the transaction. rule 375-3-1-.37 video recording, photography, and solicitation at dds facilities (1) filming and photography on department of driver services owned or controlled property (a) in that it has been previously declared by state law that the use of the capitol building and grounds shall be limited to departments of state government and to state and national political organizations and for no other purposes unless specifically authorized by law and in that the employees of the departments of state government, and of state agencies, authorities, commissions, boards, bureaus, and other state entities located in the capitol building and other state buildings are engaged in the business of the citizens of the state and should not be unreasonably interrupted in the performance of their public duties, it is, therefore, in the best interest of the state and its citizens that a public policy against such unreasonable disruptions of state employees in the performance of their official duties be declared, and it is in this code section so declared. o.c.g.a. § 50-9-9(a) . (b) department of driver services customer service centers are non-public forums in which customers do not anticipate being filmed or photographed. customers have an expectation of privacy in conducting these personal matters which include the exchange of personal information. for this reason, filming and photography are prohibited in all customer service centers. (2) soliciting on department of driver services owned or controlled property (a) without the express written consent of the director of the georgia building authority, his or her designee, or his or her successor in office first having been received and except as otherwise provided by state law, it shall be illegal for any person, firm, group, organization, or other entity to beg, panhandle, solicit, or to sell goods, wares, or any other objects or services within any buildings or on the grounds, sidewalks, or other ways owned by or under the control of the state, its agencies, authorities, commissions, boards, bureaus, or other state entities. o.c.g.a. § 50-9-9(b) . (b) solicitation of any kind is prohibited on department of driver services owned or controlled properties. rule 375-3-1-.01 assignment of customer identification number rule 375-3-1-.02 applications and supporting documentation rule 375-3-1-.03 organization rule 375-3-1-.04 licenses restricted as to use for physical impairment rule 375-3-1-.05 reciprocity for valid licenses issued by other jurisdictions rule 375-3-1-.06 vision examination rule 375-3-1-.07 knowledge tests rule 375-3-1-.08 oral examination rule 375-3-1-.09 sequence for prerequisites to driving demonstration rule 375-3-1-.10 driving ability demonstration rule 375-3-1-.11 test vehicle rule 375-3-1-.12 re-examination upon failure rule 375-3-1-.13 changes to customer information rule 375-3-1-.14 verification of customer information. revised rule 375-3-1-.15 photographs on cards or credentials issued by the department rule 375-3-1-.16 eligibility for veterans' or honorary driver's license and identification card rule 375-3-1-.17 changing gender on license rule 375-3-1-.18 national driver register rule 375-3-1-.19 testing and mvr requirements after expiration of license rule 375-3-1-.20 inmate drivers certificate rule 375-3-1-.21 distinctive driver's license, permit, and identification card for persons under age twenty-one (21) rule 375-3-1-.22 disposition of dui citation rule 375-3-1-.23 application for personal identification cards rule 375-3-1-.24 name on license or identification card rule 375-3-1-.25 restricted instructional permit for child with disabled parent. revised rule 375-3-1-.26 non-commercial class e and f driver's licenses rule 375-3-1-.27 proving identity using a birth certificate from puerto rico rule 375-3-1-.28 requests for medical alert information rule 375-3-1-.29 replacement of lost, stolen, or destroyed cards rule 375-3-1-.30 exceptions process rule 375-3-1-.31 satisfaction of school requirements for customers under age eighteen (18) rule 375-3-1-.32 eligibility for active-duty national guard driver's license and identification card rule 375-3-1-.33 term of receipt for online issuance rule 375-3-1-.34 applications of minors rule 375-3-1-.35 open records requests rule 375-3-1-.36 fees for driver's licenses, instruction permits, identification cards, and temporary driving permits rule 375-3-1-.37 video recording, photography, and solicitation at dds facilities copyright 2026 fastcase, inc - all rights reserved. | email us | 844-838-0769