update your gender marker or sex identifier on your identity documents | california courts | self help guide skip to main content judicial branch of california supreme court courts of appeal superior courts judicial council california courts | self help guide type of case adoption appeals care act child custody child support civil lawsuits conservatorship criminal debt divorce eviction gender recognition guardianship immigration juvenile dependency juvenile justice name change parentage restraining order small claims traffic wills and estates court information court basics your day in court request an interpreter services at court find court forms fee waivers español previous page index: all pages update your gender marker or sex identifier on your identity documents in california , you can change the gender marker or sex identifier on a birth certificate or driver's license without a court order or medical certification. you can change it to male, female, or nonbinary . you can also change your designation of bride or groom on your marriage certificate without a court order, if your spouse agrees. the federal government and other states have their own rules about which markers you can use and when they will change the marker. there's no one place to update all your records. you will need to contact each agency to update your information and get a new card issued. ↗ ️ links below open in a new tab. print email enter your email we ll only use this email to send this link text enter your mobile number ten digit mobile number starting with the area code (e.g. 4158654200) select your mobile carrier select your mobile carrier boost mobile cricket wireless alltel google fi metropcs at t republic wireless sprint t-mobile verizon u.s. cellular virgin mobile we ll only use this mobile number to send this link california birth certificate update (amend) your california birth certificate through the california department of public health . if you have more questions, contact vital records at the department of public health. california driver's license or id card update your driver's license or id through the department of motor vehicles . the instructions also cover how to get a real id . if you have more questions, contact your local dmv office . california marriage certificate you can change your designation on your marriage certificate to bride, groom, or neither. if you had a public marriage, you can update your california marriage record through the california department of public health . they will issue you a new certificate. if you had a confidential marriage, pay a fee and file the order with the county registrar/recorder's office in the county that issued the marriage certificate. the county recorder will issue you a new certificate. the transgender law center has detailed information about how to update other state and federal id documents . us social security card update your social security records through the social security administration . there's no fee. if you have more questions, contact your local social security office . us passport the rules regarding gender markers on us passports are currently under review. visit this government page to read more. go through the u.s. department of state to update your name on your u.s. passport. if you have questions, contact the national passport information center . was this helpful? yes no did this information help you with your case? great! anything you can share about what made it helpful? sorry to hear that! what would make this more helpful? any additional feedback? email (optional) this question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. leave this field blank was this helpful? success alert banner: have a question about gender recognition? look for a "chat now" button in the right bottom corner of your screen. if you don’t see it, disable any pop-up/ad blockers on your browser. california courts | self help guide judicial branch of california accessibility terms of use privacy policy 2026