court order to recognize change of gender in california | california courts | self help guide skip to main content judicial branch of california supreme court courts of appeal superior courts judicial council california courts | self help guide type of case adoption appeals care act child custody child support civil lawsuits conservatorship criminal debt divorce eviction gender recognition guardianship immigration juvenile dependency juvenile justice name change parentage restraining order small claims traffic wills and estates court information court basics your day in court request an interpreter services at court find court forms fee waivers español previous page index: all pages court order to recognize change of gender in california this guide can help you: understand when you need a court order recognizing change of gender to update a gender marker or sex identifier ask for a court order recognizing your or your child's gender change find out where to update your gender marker or sex identifier on your ids ready to get started? the steps and forms you need to fill out vary depending on your situation. answer a few questions to get the right set of instructions. start the process print email enter your email we ll only use this email to send this link text enter your mobile number ten digit mobile number starting with the area code (e.g. 4158654200) select your mobile carrier select your mobile carrier boost mobile cricket wireless alltel google fi metropcs at t republic wireless sprint t-mobile verizon u.s. cellular virgin mobile we ll only use this mobile number to send this link in california, you can ask the court for an order recognizing your or your child's gender change. when you ask for the order, you can ask for a gender marker of female, male, or nonbinary. the process takes about two months. do you always need a court order to update gender markers? california identity documents you don't need a court order to update the marker or identifier on your: california birth certificate california marriage certificate, if your spouse agrees california driver's license find out how to update identity documents from each government agency identity. out-of-state birth certificates you may need a court order find out what the place that issued your birth certificate requires. advocates for trans equality has a state-by-state guide on information and resources on driver's license and birth certificate gender change policies (scroll down on the page to "name change, driver's license birth certificate policies in" and choose your state). federal identity documents for the different federal ids and records, advocates for trans equality has information on updating different types of federal ids or records (scroll down on the page to "federal ids records" and choose the type of federal record you want information about). you need a court order to change your name. if you also want to change your name with the order recognizing your gender change, you will need to get a court order. you can ask for recognition of gender change and name change order at the same time. or, you can just ask to change your name to match your gender identity. to get instructions for either of those situations (for an adult or a child), answer a few questions . basic steps to get a court order 1. file forms with the court you pay a $435-$450 filing fee. if you can’t afford the fee, you can ask the court to waive it. the clerk will give you a date when a judge will make a decision. 2. for an order recognizing your child's gender change, the other parent(s) may need to get a copy if you're a parent asking for a court order recognizing your child's gender, without the other parent(s), you may have to serve (give in the right legal way) the other parent(s) with a copy of the forms. 3. a judge will make a decision in about 1 to 2 months after you get the court order, you will use it to have your identity documents updated. 📌 you do not need to provide any medical documentation. you do not need to provide any medical documentation to get a court order recognizing a gender change or to change california state-issued documents. you (or your child if you're asking for them) do not need to have undergone any gender-affirming care. other states have different rules. if you want to change an identity document issued by another state or country, find out what they require. ⚠ ️ do you live out of state? you can change california-issued records , like your birth certificate or your child's birth certificate, or your marriage certificate, even if you live out of state. you can follow the instructions in this guide. since you are out of state, there are a few differences, like where you file. find out more about the differences if you live out of state . court order to recognize gender what would you like to do? get a court order recognizing gender answer a few questions to get step-by-step information for getting a court order recognizing gender. you can also ask for a name change at the same time. find out about name change learn more about the name change process if you want to change your or your child's name to match gender identity. find out how to update a gender marker on identity documents get information about how to update gender markers on identity documents. was this helpful? yes no did this information help you with your case? great! anything you can share about what made it helpful? sorry to hear that! what would make this more helpful? any additional feedback? email (optional) this question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. leave this field blank was this helpful? success alert banner: have a question about gender recognition? look for a "chat now" button in the right bottom corner of your screen. if you don’t see it, disable any pop-up/ad blockers on your browser. california courts | self help guide judicial branch of california accessibility terms of use privacy policy 2026