ask for a fee waiver | california courts | self help guide skip to main content judicial branch of california supreme court courts of appeal superior courts judicial council california courts | self help guide type of case adoption appeals care act child custody child support civil lawsuits conservatorship criminal debt divorce eviction gender recognition guardianship immigration juvenile dependency juvenile justice name change parentage restraining order small claims traffic wills and estates court information court basics your day in court request an interpreter services at court find court forms fee waivers español previous page ask for a fee waiver if you can't afford court fees in most cases, you have to pay a fee to file papers with the court. if you can’t afford court fees, you can ask the court for a fee waiver . a fee waiver lets you file your papers for free. it may also cover some other court costs. if you already asked for a fee waiver and the court denied it, find out what to do next. ↗ ️ all court form links open in a new tab. jump to section what a fee waiver covers what a fee waiver doesn’t cover your information is confidential when to ask for a fee waiver if your case is a divorce or legal separation how long a fee waiver lasts use different instructions for some cases who qualifies for a fee waiver how to ask for a fee waiver after you ask for a fee waiver key takeaways print email enter your email we ll only use this email to send this link text enter your mobile number ten digit mobile number starting with the area code (e.g. 4158654200) select your mobile carrier select your mobile carrier boost mobile cricket wireless alltel google fi metropcs at t republic wireless sprint t-mobile verizon u.s. cellular virgin mobile we ll only use this mobile number to send this link what a fee waiver covers if the court grants your fee waiver, you may not have to pay for: filing fees fees to respond to a case copies of court papers, including certified copies fees for the sheriff to serve your papers court reporter fees to attend trial other fees listed on form fw-003 , item 4 ⚠ ️ what a fee waiver doesn’t cover a fee waiver doesn't cover everything. court reporter transcripts a fee waiver doesn’t cover the cost of a written transcript from a court reporter. this cost is paid to the reporter, not the court. you may be able to get help paying for transcripts through the transcript reimbursement fund . fees you may have to pay later even if the court gives you a fee waiver, the court may later decide you must pay some or all of the fees if your money situation gets better or you get money because of your case. ⚠ ️ the court must tell you first and give you a chance to ask for a hearing. fees that aren't covered by your fee waiver you may also have to pay fees that aren't covered by your fee waiver. if that happens, you may need to ask for another fee waiver using form fw-002 . learn more about waiving additional fees other costs a fee waiver doesn’t cover lawyer fees, private mediation, or fines or penalties ordered by the court. your information is confidential the information you put on your fee waiver request form is confidential . only the court can see it. you don't have to give it to the other side. when to ask for a fee waiver you usually ask for a fee waiver when you first file papers and have to pay a filing fee. you can also ask for a fee waiver later in your case if you can’t afford fees at that point. 📌 the filing fees shown on this site are estimates . you can find exact fees: on your county court’s website , or on the statewide court fee schedule if your case is a divorce or legal separation you can ask for a fee waiver if your case is a: divorce legal separation annulment a fee waiver in a divorce case can help cover: the fee to file divorce papers the fee to respond to divorce papers fees to file requests for orders, like custody or support 📌 you can file your fee waiver: with your divorce petition with your response later in the case if your finances change ⚠ ️ a fee waiver doesn’t decide or help with money issues between you and your spouse. it only applies to court fees. how long a fee waiver lasts a fee waiver expires 60 days after: judgment is entered your case is dismissed the judge makes a final decision a fee waiver can also end if the court decides you no longer qualify. ⚠ ️ if your fee waiver expires and you need to do something else in your case, like ask for a new order, you'll have to ask for a new fee waiver if you can't afford the fees. you can read more about this on form fw-001-info . ⚠ ️ use different instructions for some cases do not use these instructions if you need a fee waiver for: a guardianship or conservatorship case an appeal or writ in a civil case these cases have different rules. who qualifies for a fee waiver you only need to meet 1 of these to qualify. you don’t have to meet all 3. option 1: you receive public benefits for example: unemployment medi-cal calfresh (food stamps) wic calworks general assistance ssi or ssp tribal tanf ihss capi option 2: your household income is below a set amount the income limits are listed on request to waive court fees (form fw-001) , item 5b. you’ll need to give the court information about your household income. option 3: you can’t meet basic needs and pay court fees you qualify if you can show the court that you can’t afford: your household’s basic needs, and court filing fees you’ll need to give information about your income and expenses so that the judge can decide whether to give you a fee waiver. how to ask for a fee waiver gather the information you need read form fw-001-info first. depending on how you qualify, you may need: pay stubs bills bank statements you don't have to turn in this information. use it to help you fill out the form. if you receive public benefits: check which benefit you receive on the form you don’t need to list income or expenses fill out the forms fill out request to waive court fees (form fw-001) . 🔒 this is a confidential form that only the court will see. on item 5, check a, b, or c depending on how you qualify: check 5a if you receive public benefits don't complete page 2 check 5b if you qualify because of your household income complete page 2, items 7–9 check 5c if you qualify because you can't afford court fees complete all of page 2 ✍ ️ sign the form under penalty of perjury. this means you promise the information is true and understand the court can punish you for lying. also fill out item 1 on order on court fee waiver (form fw-003) . make copies make 1 copy of form fw-001 you don’t need to copy form fw-003 file your fee waiver forms take the original and copy to the court clerk. you can file them: at the same time as your other court papers, or by themselves the clerk or judge will write their decision on form fw-003 . if you file by mail : mail the originals to the clerk include a self-addressed stamped envelope include enough postage for the court to return your copies ⚠ ️ if you don’t include an envelope, you’ll need to go to court to pick up your copies. some courts allow online filing (called e-filing). check your court’s website to see if this is an option. after you ask for a fee waiver if the court grants your request you don't have to pay the court fees checked on form fw-003 , item 4 if your income goes up after you get a fee waiver: 📅 you must tell the court within 5 days using form fw-010 the court may end your fee waiver if you no longer qualify for it if the court doesn't grant your request in most cases, you’ll need to pay the fee to start your case. depending on why the court denied your request: you may be able to give more information you must act quickly 💬 a self-help center ↗ ️ (link opens in a new tab) can help you understand the court order and what to do next. key takeaways a fee waiver lets you file court papers without paying fees your fee waiver application is confidential you can ask for a fee waiver at the start of a case or later fee waivers expire 60 days after your case ends fee waiver what's next? send this page to yourself enter your email we ll only use this email to send this link if your fee waiver wasn't granted find out how to read the court order and what to do next. was this helpful? yes no did this information help you with your case? great! anything you can share about what made it helpful? sorry to hear that! what would make this more helpful? any additional feedback? email (optional) this question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. leave this field blank was this helpful? success alert banner: have a question about fee waiver? look for a "chat now" button in the right bottom corner of your screen. if you don’t see it, disable any pop-up/ad blockers on your browser. california courts | self help guide judicial branch of california accessibility terms of use privacy policy 2026