change your name in california | california courts | self help guide skip to main content judicial branch of california supreme court courts of appeal superior courts judicial council california courts | self help guide type of case adoption appeals care act child custody child support civil lawsuits conservatorship criminal debt divorce eviction gender recognition guardianship immigration juvenile dependency juvenile justice name change parentage restraining order small claims traffic wills and estates court information court basics your day in court request an interpreter services at court find court forms fee waivers español previous page index: all pages change your name in california this guide can help you: change your name or your child's name understand your options if your child's other parent asked to change their name find out where to update your name on identity documents if you already changed your name and need a copy of a court order, contact the court where your case was filed. ready to start name change process? the steps and forms you need to fill out vary depending on your situation. answer a few questions to get the right set of instructions. start the process print email enter your email we ll only use this email to send this link text enter your mobile number ten digit mobile number starting with the area code (e.g. 4158654200) select your mobile carrier select your mobile carrier boost mobile cricket wireless alltel google fi metropcs at t republic wireless sprint t-mobile verizon u.s. cellular virgin mobile we ll only use this mobile number to send this link you can legally change your name by filing papers in court. if a judge agrees, they will give you a court order that states your new legal name. you need this order to change your name on identity documents, like your driver’s license, passport, or social security card. basic steps to change a name 1. file forms with the court you pay a $435-$450 filing fee. if you can’t afford the fee, you can ask the court to waive it. the clerk will give you a date when a judge will make a decision. 2. publish your forms in a newspaper before a judge can decide, you must have the forms published in a newspaper for one month. this means that the request shows up in a legal notice section of a paper. there’s a fee to publish in a newspaper. ⚠ ️ if your name change is to match your gender identity or filed with a request for gender change recognition, you don't need to publish. 3. for name change for a child, the other parent may need to get a copy if you're a parent filing to change your child's name, without the other parent, you will have to serve (give in the right legal way) the other parent with a copy of the forms. 4. a judge will make a decision in about 2 to 3 months after you get the court order, you will use it to have your identity documents updated. ⚠ ️ do you live out of state? you can change california-issued records , like a birth certificate or your marriage certificate. follow the instructions in this guide but there are a few differences you should know (like what county you file in). getting married, divorced, or becoming a us citizen? there are other ways to change your name if it is related to marriage, divorce, or becoming a u.s. citizen. how to change your name through marriage license application process. how to change your name as part of your divorce case . you can do this even if you were divorced years ago. how to change your name as part of the naturalization process . a name change will not change who a child's legal parent is. if you want to be added to a child's birth certificate or be legally recognized as their parent, changing their name will not do it. you may need to start a parentage case , which is used to say who are a child's legal parents. you can ask to change a child's name in this process. to correct a clerical error on a legal identity document, contact the agency that issues legal identity documents . name change what would you like to do? start a name change answer a few questions to get step-by-step instructions. respond to other parent's name change request get step-by-step information on ways to respond if your child's other parent asked to change your child's name (you were served a form nc-120). update your ids if you already changed your name legally, get information on how to update your legal documents (like social security card or driver's license). was this helpful? yes no did this information help you with your case? great! anything you can share about what made it helpful? sorry to hear that! what would make this more helpful? any additional feedback? email (optional) this question is for testing whether or not you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions. leave this field blank was this helpful? success alert banner: have a question about change of name and gender? look for a "chat now" button in the right bottom corner of your screen. if you don’t see it, disable any pop-up/ad blockers on your browser. california courts | self help guide judicial branch of california accessibility terms of use privacy policy 2026