selective service system skip to main content an official website of the united states government here's how you know here's how you know the .gov means it’s official. federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. the site is secure. the https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. selective service system menu registration register now who needs to register verify status update your information benefits & penalties frequently asked questions news & media reports & publications about about selective service records privacy policy contact us search small search register verify registration do your part register today when you register with the selective service system, you're helping ensure a secure future for your community and the united states of america. federal law requires nearly all male u.s. citizens and male immigrants to register at age 18. the agency permits males up to age 25 to complete their registration with selective service system. in a national emergency, selective service system will use the registry to provide personnel to the department of war and alternative service for conscientious objectors, if authorized by the president and congress. register verify registration registration for men selective service system registration is required by law. by registering, a young man remains eligible for jobs, state-based student aid and employment in most states, federally-funded job training, and u.s. citizenship for immigrant men. benefits and penalties register now verify your registration online verification provides a quick way to access your selective service registration number and date of registration. you also can print a copy of your registration card that can be used as proof of registration. verify now men 26 and older if you are 26 or older, it's too late to register. if you failed to register by age 26 and are seeking benefits associated with selective service registration, click the link below to learn more about next steps. learn more about next steps additional groups women the law requires that only men register with selective service system. immigrants if you are an 18-25-year-old immigrant man living in the united states, you are required to register with few exceptions. veterans if you are a military veteran or a military reservist, you are still required to register. however, if you served in the armed forces and are 26 or older, but failed to register, your dd form 214 is evidence that your failure to register was not knowing and willful. parents your son remains eligible for benefits that are linked to registration, like state-based student aid, grants, job training programs, government jobs and citizenship. registration is not the same as enlisting with the u.s. armed forces. there is no draft and registration does not mean automatic induction into the military. selective service system hours of operation: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm est, monday to friday, except on federal holidays. reports foia (freedom of information act) annual reports budget and performance data eeo resources quality of information inspector general quick links careers and internships accessibility privacy policy terms of use usa.gov employees vulnerability disclosure u.s. office of special counsel get in touch email linkedin call