i want to change my name. | texas law help skip to main content powered by topics common topics family, divorce, and children virtual court health and benefits veterans and military all topics court basics child protective services (cps) criminal records and traffic money and debt house apartment individual rights protection from violence or abuse school and work wills, estate planning, and probate self help featured self-help self-help guides ask a question guided forms informative articles more resources court information helpful non-legal organizations legal assistance find help legal help directory legal events clinics more resources qualifying for legal aid working with private attorneys professional use only (forms) family help link en search search i want to change my name. name change this kit has forms and instructions to legally change your name in texas if you're 18 or older. last legal review on january 6, 2023 | last edited on august 6, 2025 overview instructions forms related articles related guides overview guide overview this toolkit contains forms and instructions for changing your name. warning: the information and forms in this guide are not a substitute for the advice and help of a lawyer. research tips the legal system is complex and it is not possible for texaslawhelp.org to answer every question. you can also go to a law library to conduct legal research. how? see the texaslawhelp legal research guide . there is a directory of local law libraries available for public use at law libraries in texas . but if you are not near a law library, you may be able to access more information (if you are a texas resident) by registering for a free texas state law library account . with this account, you can access a variety of online sources. examples of books and guides to look for at a law library: o’connor's texas family law handbook texas family law practice manual texas family code annotated texas jurisprudence westlaw resources – if your local law library has free westlaw access you can look for secondary resources such as: texas practice series texas family law service texas practice guide family law common questions about name change do i need a court order to change my name? expand collapse you will usually need a court order to change your name. if you were recently married, you may be able to change your last name to your spouse’s last name without a court order by providing proof of your marriage to the social security office and driver’s license office. see how to change information on your driver license or id card and how do i change or correct my name on my social security number card? if you need a court order, you can use the forms in this toolkit. can i change my name if i have a criminal record? expand collapse maybe. in general, a court will change your name if the court finds that the name change would be in your interest and the public’s interest. you must provide information about your criminal record and the judge will consider that information when deciding whether to change your name. a court cannot change your name if you have a felony conviction, unless you provide proof that: you have been pardoned, it has been at least two years since you were discharged from prison or completed probation, or you are asking to change your name to the primary name used in your criminal history record information. a court cannot change your name if you are required to register as a sex offender, unless you also provide proof that you notified your local law enforcement authority that you are asking the court to change your name. can i use these forms to change my name if i am under 18? expand collapse no. you must be at least 18 years old to use these forms. if you are under 18, your parent or legal guardian can ask the court to change your name using the forms found in this toolkit: i want to change my child’s name. how much will it cost to change my name? expand collapse the court filing fee may be between $150 and $300 depending on where you live. contact the district clerk’s office in your county to learn the filing fee for an adult name change. if you have a low-income, you can ask the court to waive the filing fee by filing a statement of inability to afford payment of court costs form. learn more here: court fees and fee waivers . you must also pay to be fingerprinted and, in some counties, pay for a criminal background check. my name is misspelled on my birth certificate. do i need a court order to correct the spelling of my name? expand collapse you may be able to correct the spelling of your name without going to court. contact the texas vital statistics unit to discuss your situation. if you need a court order, you can use the forms in this toolkit. the name on my birth certificate is different from the name i have always used. do i need a court order to change my name? expand collapse you will probably need a court order to change your name from the name currently on your birth certificate to the name you have always used. you can contact the texas vital statistics unit to discuss your situation. if you need a court order, you can use the forms in this toolkit. i was recently divorced. will my last name change back to the name i used before my marriage? expand collapse if the court ordered your name changed in your final decree of divorce , your name is changed. however, it is your responsibility to have your official documents (such as your social security card and driver’s license or state identification card) changed to show your new name. if the court did not order your name changed in your final decree of divorce, your name is not changed. will my child’s name automatically change when i change my name? expand collapse no. changing a child’s name is a different process and requires different forms. if you want to change your child’s name, use the forms found in this toolkit: i want to change my child’s name. instructions forms instructions & forms instructions to change the name of an adult expand collapse print warning: the information and forms in this guide are not a substitute for the advice and help of a lawyer. you can use the forms in this guide to ask a court to change your name if: you are at least 18 years old. you file a petition asking for a name change in the texas county where you live. you provide the court with complete information about all felonies and class a or b misdemeanors with which you have been charged. you have never been convicted of a felony. (if you were convicted of a felony, you must provide proof that either you were pardoned, or it has been at least two years since you were discharged from prison or completed probation.) you are not required to register as a sex offender. ( if you are required to register as a sex offender, you must provide proof that you notified your local law enforcement authority about your name change request). note: even if you were convicted of a felony, you may be able to change your name without waiting two years if you are asking to change your name to the primary name used in your criminal history record information. see texas family code 45.103(b)(2) . the name change forms and instructions are also available as a guided name change of an adult form-and-instructions set, which prompts you for information that it uses to complete the form for you. and, the harris county law library combined all the forms and instructions into one convenient, printable pdf: texaslawhelp.org combined packets home adult name change. checklist steps step 1: fill out your court forms. expand collapse fill out your forms. fill out all the spaces on the forms unless instructed otherwise. the judge and court clerks will not fill them out for you. the judge may deny the name change if the information is inaccurate or incomplete. the first form is the petition to change the name of an adult (if the link does not work, scroll down to the bottom of this page for links to forms). this form asks the judge to change your name. it also tells the judge if you have a criminal record. you will have to sign this form under penalty of perjury. this means it is a crime to lie on this form. the second form is the order changing the name of an adult . the judge signs this form to legally change your name. fill out all spaces on the form except for the judge’s signature. fill out the third form—the statement of inability to afford payment of court costs —out only if you have a low income, receive public assistance because you have a low income, or cannot pay the court filing fee. the statement of inability to afford payment of court costs asks the judge to waive the court filing fee. the judge may ask you to present evidence of income and expenses at a hearing. read court fees and fee waivers for more information. note: you can print your court forms and fill them out neatly in blue or black ink. step 2: get your fingerprints taken. expand collapse get a legible and complete set of your fingerprints made on a texas department of public safety or federal bureau of investigations fingerprint card. there will be a fee for this service. check with local law enforcement or do some online research to learn where to get your fingerprints taken. step 3: collect additional paperwork if you have a felony conviction or you are a sex offender. expand collapse if you have a felony conviction for each felony conviction, you must provide proof that: you have been pardoned, or at least two years have passed since you completed your sentence or probation. exception: you may be able to change your name without waiting two years if you are changing it to the primary name used in your criminal history record. see texas family code 45.103(b)(2) . if this applies, obtain proof of your name as listed in your criminal history record. how to get proof if you were pardoned : get a copy of your pardon or clemency proclamation from the secretary of state registrations unit. learn more in the faqs about the clemency process . if you served time in a texas prison : request a copy of your discharge papers from the classification and records division of the texas department of criminal justice. if you served time in another state or federal prison : get your discharge papers from that state’s department of criminal justice or the federal bureau of prisons. if you were on felony or juvenile probation : obtain proof of probation completion from the district clerk’s office in the county where you were prosecuted. if you are required to register as a sex offender: you must provide proof that you have notified local law enforcement about your name change request. attaching your proof: write “exhibit” at the top of each document. attach the exhibits to your petition to change the name of an adult form. step 4: make copies. expand collapse make a copy of your completed petition to change the name of an adult, fingerprint card, and, if applicable, your statement of inability to afford payment of court costs. step 5: file your petition in the county where you live. expand collapse you can file in person or e-file online. read what court employees can and cannot do , because court staff cannot give you legal advice. to file in person, take the following to the district clerk’s office in the county where you live: at the clerk’s office: turn in your petition to change the name of an adult, fingerprint card, and statement of inability to afford payment of court costs (only if you are asking the judge to waive the filing fee) bring copies of what you’re filing with you. pay the filing fee (or file your completed statement of inability to afford payment of court costs if you cannot afford the fee). you can call the clerk’s office ahead of time to learn the filing fee for your case. ask the clerk if there is a local standing order that you need to follow or attach to any of your documents. ask the clerk if there are local rules or procedures you need to know about for name changes. the clerk will write your “cause number” and “court number” at the top of the first page of your petition. write these numbers at the top of any document you file in your name change case. the clerk will “file stamp” your copies with the date and time. the clerk will keep the original and give you back your copies. to e-file : first, contact the clerk’s office and ask how the courts in that county require you to attach a scanned copy of your fingerprint card to the petition. expect that you will also need to take your original fingerprint card to your court hearing. next, read i want to electronically file (e-file) my documents , or follow the instructions included with the name change of an adult guided form . you will e-file your petition and, if applicable, a statement of inability to afford payment of court costs. step 6: get ready for court. expand collapse how are hearings held? contact the district clerk’s office in your county, or the court coordinator, to learn how to get an uncontested hearing for an adult name change. some counties will schedule a date and time for your hearing. other counties have a time you can walk in to see the judge. some courts will schedule virtual hearings using videoconferencing software like zoom. finally, some judges might consider your case “on submission,” meaning they will simply review your paperwork to make a decision. check the virtual court: county-by-county section to see if your county is there. if it is, you can use the guides for your county to read information about hearings and local rules for the court your case is in. local rules. find out if there are local rules that you need to know for your name change case. these are usually on the county’s official website, but you should also ask the clerk or coordinator. you can search the virtual court: county-by-county page for your county or the local rules, forms, and standing orders page on the texas courts website. background checks? and, ask the clerk’s office or coordinator if the court requires you to get a criminal background check before your hearing. if you need a criminal background check, mail your fingerprint card to the texas department of public safety (dps) with a file-stamped copy of your petition to change the name of an adult with the court. there is a fee for this service. dps will send the results directly to the court. the texas department of public safety (dps)'s website has specific instructions on submitting fingerprint cards for a legal name change. form cs-65 has the steps you need to follow. finally, to learn what to expect and what to do, read tips for the courtroom . step 7: go to your court hearing. expand collapse bring the following to your court hearing: your order changing the name of an adult form completely filled out, except for the judge’s signature. a file-stamped copy of your petition to change the name of an adult and all the exhibits you filed with your petition. your fingerprint card (if you e-filed your petition). proof of your identity, such as your passport, driver’s license or state identification card. sample testimony for adult name change (which you should complete and review before court). when you get to the courthouse, stop by the clerk’s office to find out where to go and whether you need to bring the court file. when you get to the courtroom, check in with the clerk or court coordinator. when the judge calls your case, stand in front of the judge’s bench. the judge will swear you in and review your forms. the judge may ask you some questions about your name change, or you may read your sample testimony. some judges will require that you testify under oath that you are not changing your name to avoid criminal prosecution or get out of paying a debt. if everything is in order, the judge will sign your order changing the name of an adult form. step 8: file the order signed by the judge and get certified copies. expand collapse once the judge has signed the order changing your name, the clerk in the courtroom may file the order or you may need to take the order to the clerk’s office to be filed. your name will not be changed until the order is filed. get several certified copies of the order from the clerk. there is a fee for certified copies, but you will need certified copies of the order to get your official documents changed to your new name. step 9: change official documents to show your new name. expand collapse it is your responsibility to have your official documents changed to show your new name. social security card : to change your social security card, take or mail a certified copy of the order changing your name to your local social security office. for more information visit: u.s. social security administration . driver’s license or state identification card : to change your driver’s license or state identification card, you must take a certified copy of the order changing your name to a texas department of public safety office. for more information, contact the texas department of public safety (dps) . voter registration card : to change your name on your voter registration card, notify your county voter registrar in writing. for more information, contact the texas secretary of state . passport : to change your name on your passport, notify the u.s. state department . birth certificate : you can also change your name on your birth certificate if you choose, but it is not required. if you wish to change your birth certificate, you will need to get an application to amend certificate of birth from the texas vital statistics unit. forms required petition to change the name of an adult fm-nca-100 for adults. file to ask judge to legally change name. download form order changing the name of an adult fm-nca-200 final order the judge must sign to legally change an adult's name. download form adult name change prove-up declaration fm-nca-112 sworn declaration containing the necessary elements for adult name change. download form sample testimony for adult name change fm-nca-700 examples of testimony an adult can use when asking the judge to change their name. download form name change of an adult - guided form this interview helps you fill out the forms you need to change an adult's name. access form related articles related articles how to change a child s name frequently asked questions about changing a child's name. read more name change name-change basics for both children and adults. read more related guides related guides i want to change my child s name. name change of a child this toolkit for parents and guardians contains forms and instructions for legally changing the name of a child under 18. explore guide i want to electronically file (e-file) my documents. virtual court: technology find out how to use the texas electronic filing system and learn helpful tips for fixing common mistakes when submitting court documents online. ... explore guide about us sponsors order outreach materials feedback privacy disclaimer printing costs policy social links facebook instagram youtube texaslawhelp.org is a program of texas legal services center (tlsc) , with contributions from legal aid organizations and partners statewide. texas legal services center (tlsc) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that provides free legal services to underserved texans in need of education, advice, and representation. donate free. not for sale. the information and forms available on this website are free. they are not for sale. by using this website, you agree not to sell or make a profit in any way from any information or forms that you obtained through this website. digital strategy, design, and development by four kitchens . © 2001-2026 texaslawhelp.org all rights reserved. back to top quick escape live chat available open chat live chat offline live chat unavailable