name change skip to main content go to tn.gov go to tn.gov section go to safety driver services online driver services locations and appointments regular driver license commercial driver license identification license reinstatement, moving violation, traffic crash driver improvement - traffic school helpful information tennessee highway patrol thp administration commercial vehicle enforcement forfeitures seizures office of professional accountability protective services bureau special investigations bureau training center thp social media thp contact information handgun carry permits helpful links join tennessee highway patrol crash report women in law enforcement conference homeland security report suspicious activity safetn app cyber awareness critical infrastructure emergency protocols grants tennessee highway safety office crash data tacn contact tacn tacn administration interoperability/talkgroups minimum requirements and best practices emergency radio communication enhancement system (erces) tacn frequently asked questions forms publications tacn timeline report lost/stolen radio tacn system user guide information for agencies joining tacn immigration enforcement cied chief ryan hubbard print this page print this page go to search now accepting thp trooper applications report a threat or suspicious activity helpful information forms publications driving record (mvr) types of issued licenses senior drivers voter photo id real id driver license fees renewing your license or identification replacing a lost license name change address change proof of citizenship/lawful permanent residency proof of tennessee residency motor vehicle record verification becoming a certified ignition interlock provider becoming a court ordered driver education course provider and/or instructor name change you must visit a driver services center to change your name. you will need your current license and the original or certified copy of a document showing the reason for the change for instance a marriage certificate, divorce decree, or court order. you will be charged a duplicate fee ranging from $8 to $16 dollars. the fee will depend on the number of duplicates you’ve had and the type of license you have. all certificate for driving, temporary driver license and temporary id duplicates cost $28.00. note: all documents must be originals or certified copies. faxes or photocopies will not be accepted. required documents for a legal change of name it is advised to visit your local social security office and update your name with them first before visiting the driver service center. legal name change or divorce as recorded in the court decree with judge’s original signature and/or official court seal. note: a copy of a court document with a copied seal or signature is not acceptable. a copy of a court document with an original signature or seal that is affixed to copy is acceptable. marriage license/certificate must include the applicant's full name. the document must be a certified copy of the marriage certificate issued by the county clerk or other authorized government agency after the marriage has been performed and officially recorded. the following documents are not acceptable: a marriage license authorizing the marriage ceremony an application for a marriage license or marriage certificate an unrecorded marriage certificate a marriage certificate that has not been filed with and certified by the issuing authority or any uncertified copy note: all documents are subject to verification with the issuing agency or source. documents requiring verification may delay issuance of the credential. social media facebook twitter youtube instagram flickr linkedin media newsroom communications featured links thp checkpoints safety payment portal caela public comment portal report fraud, waste, or abuse licensed hemp growers open records trooper career qualifications salary training faqs about us administration employment contact us title vi disclaimer title iv public notice department of safety homeland security jeff long 312 rosa l. parks avenue nashville, tn 37243 (866) 903-7357 flag status chat help translate font size a- normal a+ tn.gov services tn.gov directory transparent tn web policies mobile app about tennessee title vi accessibility help contact survey close