acceptable proof documents | wv division of motor vehicles skip to main content an official west virginia government website state agency directory | online services | phone directory wv division of motor vehicles search text box driver services toggle submenu drivers ​driver s licenses and id cards​ real id headstart pre-​enrollment​ renew my driver s license sample driver s test​ driver s licensing handbooks obtain my driving record organ/tissue donor registry online driver s license testing​ certificate for inspection form​ disabled persons parking application for a mobility impaired person​ application for parking for an agency or organization transporting persons with disabilities safety belt waiver - physician s certification of disability affidavit for a sign language interpreter/translator​ medical review request form​ vehicle services toggle submenu vehicles dealers renew registration insurance​​ license plates​ personalized plate search sample plate order form boat handb​ook​ atvs atv laws​ spv s (special purpose vehicles) hatfield mccoy trail hatfield​ mccoy map hatfield mccoy co​nvention and visitors bureau online services toggle submenu self service real id headstart pre-enrollment​ renew my driver s license check driver s license status registration renewal duplicate card, decal, plate insurance verification trip permits appointments toggle submenu online services wv dmv now kiosk locations schedule an appointment commercial driver s license toggle submenu commercial driver s license commercial driver s license wv mcdl program military skills test waiver program military skills waiver application governor s highway safety program (ghsp) toggle submenu highway safety staff directory mission statement highway safety program regions region 1 region 2 region 3 region 4 region 5 region 6 region 7 region 8 child passenger safety parent and caregiver resources cps seat fitting stations occupant protection distracted driving motorcycle governor s highway safety program rider courses motorcycle safety information motorcycle safety equipment motor vehicle registration, certificate of title and anti-theft provisions law enforcement officer training west virginia’s drug evaluation classification (dec) program impaired driving ghsp reports, data, and manuals home acceptable proof documents proof of identity documents an original or certified copy of a united states-issued birth certificate (u.s. department of state and u.s. military birth certificates are acceptable, hospital birth certificates and bureau of census records are not acceptable) to obtain a birth certificate, if you were born in west virginia, contact the office of vital statistics or the county clerk at the courthouse of the county in which you were born. if you were born in another state, the national center for health statistics has information on how to obtain a birth certificate. valid, unexpired u.s. passport or official u.s. passport card if foreign born, valid, unexpired department of homeland security (dhs) document(s) or acceptable alternatives as outlined below: permanent resident card (form i-551) issued by dhs (or ins) employment authorization document (ead) issued by dhs, form i-766 or form i-688b certificate of naturalization issued by dhs, form n-550 or form n-570 certificate of citizenship, form n-560 or form n-561, issued by dhs consular report of birth abroad (crba) issued by the u.s. department of state, form fs-240, ds-1350 or fs-545 foreign passport with a valid, unexpired u.s. visa affixed accompanied by the approved i-94 form documenting the applicant's most recent admittance into the united states proof of social security number documents social security card original wage and tax statement (w-2) or payroll stub with the applicant's employer name and employer id number, as well as the applicant's name, address, and social security number (a photocopy of a w-2 is not acceptable) (you may use the same w-2 as one proof of wv residency, provided it is not more than 18 months old) 1099 form with applicant's full social security number and name please make sure your social security records reflect your full legal name, as reflected on your other documents. dmv must be able to establish a name connection between documents, therefore your full legal name must match your name on file with the social security administration. if an applicant is not eligible for a social security number, then the applicant must submit a denial letter from the social security administration. the division checks every social security number with the ssa. if you have a problem with the ssa, such as name or date of birth does not match with records of the dmv, and ssa then you must have the problem corrected before you can be issued a permit, license, or identification card. your documents will be scanned and returned to you, which will provide dmv with a historical record, and provide you with additional protection, per the federal real id act of 2005. please visit the social security administration website for information about obtaining a social security number. proof of legal name change documents dmv must be able to establish a link between any legal name changes — please call 1-800-642-9066 to clarify which proof of name change document(s) you will need to bring in to obtain your license or id card (you may be required to provide all or some of the following proof below) certified marriage certificate (for each marriage if married more than once, souvenir documents or minister's copies are not acceptable) if you need to obtain one, contact the county courthouse in the county and state in which you were married ( view the west virginia courthouse directory ). original or certified copy of a birth certificate with amended legal name to obtain a birth certificate, if you were born in west virginia, contact the office of vital statistics. if you were born in another state, the national center for health statistics has information on how to obtain a birth certificate. court order with legal name / name change certified divorce decree(s) with legal name / name change proof of west virginia residency documents you will be required to provide two proofs of west virginia residency. documents with a po box are not acceptable. any recurring document cannot be more than 60 days old. you may not use more than one document issued by the same company. acceptable documents wv utility bills (not more than 60 days old) tax records with a wv street address wv mortgage documents, homeowner insurance documents, or proof of wv home ownership wv w-2 form not more than 18 months old wv weapons permit valid wv vehicle registration card wv voter's registration card driver's eligibility certificate (only if it has a wv street address) wv homestead tax exemption proof of wv public assistance residential rental or lease agreement wv dmv affidavit of west virginia residency college admissions letter showing in-state residency pay check stub from any wv employer showing a current physical address (cannot be hand-written) social security benefits letter wv professional license wv bank statement wv auto insurance card wv hunting license 911 letter affidavit of wv facility residency (for those residing in a wv shelter, hotel, nursing home, or other similar facility) download the brochure on the new driver's license and id card requirements. changes to birth date, social security number the license or identification card holder shall substantiate a change of name by marriage with a certified marriage certificate. the license or identification card holder may choose from the following options to display his or her name on the driver's license. however, a court order specifying a change of name supersedes a birth certificate and certified marriage certificate. last name, first name then middle name as evidenced by the applicant's certified birth certificate. last name of spouse, as evidenced by the applicant's certified marriage certificate, then the first name and middle name as evidenced by the applicant's birth certificate. last name as evidenced by the applicant's marriage license, first name, then maiden name as evidenced by the applicant's birth certificate to stand in place of the middle name. any change in the birth date requires a certified birth certificate. any change or correction of the social security number requires a social security card (non-metal and not a printout from ssa). any change of gender requires the submission of the gender designation form , which must be fully and accurately completed and signed by a licensed physician. view the secure licensing faq section. 5707 maccorkle avenue, se charleston , wv 25304 united states ada information contact us disclaimer locations title vi west virginia code wv dot privacy notices get in touch hi there! 👋 i'm the wvdot public assistant. how can i help you today? wvdot public assistant online establishing connection... disclaimer: the information provided is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute legal advice. the wvdot does not assume liability for actions taken based on the assistant's responses. privacy, security and accessibility | wv.gov | usa.gov | © 2026 state of west virginia