tsa precheck® faq | transportation security administration skip to main content an official website of the united states government here’s how you know here’s how you know official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock ( lock a locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. menu what can i bring? a -z index employees search search travel travel security screening what can i bring? tsa confirmid real id identification liquids, aerosols, gels rule emerging technology digital identity claims travel redress transporting firearms ammunition tsa precheck® enrollment locations renew required documents using your ktn ktn lookup tool tsa precheck checkpoint schedule gateside by tsa precheck uniformed service members tsa precheck for families tsa precheck fee rebates tsa precheck touchless id participating airlines tsa precheck faqs tsa cares disabilities medical conditions religion tribal indigenous passenger support military children seniors law enforcement civil rights passenger volumes 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 travel tips travel checklist families on the fly military community military lanes faq media media media room press releases testimony statements factsheets multi-language press releases social media tsa canine calendar instagram link in bio videos about about tsa strategy mission leadership and organization tsa history timeline employee stories jobs at tsa transportation security officers law enforcement at tsa benefits federal hiring process why tsa mission support executive positions testimonials events for industry for industry airlines aviation programs cargo programs tsa crewmember access point™ security fees training airports asac baggage screening exit lanes general aviation screening partnership business/industry business technology alignment group (tag) capability acceptance process ssi travel industry partner marketing resources innovation tsa innovation lift industry portal open architecture c-uas surface cybersecurity toolkit first observer plus™ flight training security program hazmat endorsement i-step pass stsac security training for surface transportation employees surface transportation resources twic® contact contact customer service contact email lost and found breadcrumb home travel tsa precheck® tsa precheck® faq security screening what can i bring? complete list flammables firearms food household tools medical sharp objects sporting camping miscellaneous civil enforcement tsa confirmid about tsa confirmid tsa confirmid faqs real id confirmid toolkit real id about real id frequently asked questions campaign toolkits identification liquids, aerosols, gels rule emerging technology biometrics technology computed tomography credential authentication technology digital identity digital id states claims travel redress transporting firearms ammunition tsa precheck® enrollment locations renew required documents using your ktn ktn lookup tool tsa precheck checkpoint schedule gateside by tsa precheck uniformed service members free for service members discount for spouses free military survivor families free for qualifying disabled veterans tsa precheck for families tsa precheck fee rebates tsa precheck touchless id participating airlines tsa precheck faqs tsa cares disabilities medical conditions religion tribal indigenous passenger support military children seniors law enforcement civil rights passenger volumes 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 travel tips travel checklist families on the fly military community military lanes faq travel security screening what can i bring? complete list flammables firearms food household tools medical sharp objects sporting camping miscellaneous civil enforcement tsa confirmid about tsa confirmid tsa confirmid faqs real id confirmid toolkit airport signage toolkit infographic toolkit logo toolkit social media toolkit video/audio toolkit real id about real id are you real id ready? real id mobile driver’s licenses (mdls) real id historical federal documents frequently asked questions campaign toolkits digital media toolkit print toolkit social media toolkit video/audio toolkit identification liquids, aerosols, gels rule emerging technology biometrics technology computed tomography credential authentication technology digital identity digital id states claims travel redress transporting firearms ammunition tsa precheck® enrollment locations renew required documents using your ktn ktn lookup tool tsa precheck checkpoint schedule gateside by tsa precheck uniformed service members free for service members discount for spouses free military survivor families free for qualifying disabled veterans tsa precheck for families tsa precheck fee rebates tsa precheck touchless id participating airlines tsa precheck faqs tsa cares disabilities medical conditions religion tribal indigenous passenger support military children seniors law enforcement civil rights passenger volumes 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 travel tips travel checklist families on the fly military community military lanes faq media media room press releases testimony statements factsheets multi-language press releases social media tsa canine calendar instagram link in bio videos about tsa strategy mission leadership and organization tsa history timeline employee stories jobs at tsa transportation security officers law enforcement at tsa benefits federal hiring process why tsa featured careers mission support executive positions testimonials events for industry airlines aviation programs cargo programs tsa crewmember access point™ cmap locations and hours security fees passenger fees faq training armed security officers program crew member self defense federal flight deck officer airports asac baggage screening exit lanes general aviation screening partnership business/industry business technology alignment group (tag) capability acceptance process ssi travel industry partner marketing resources innovation tsa innovation lift industry portal open architecture c-uas surface cybersecurity toolkit first observer plus™ training on-site classroom flight training security program hazmat endorsement i-step pass stsac security training for surface transportation employees surface transportation resources twic® faqs streamlining act contact customer service contact email lost and found tsa precheck® faq applying for tsa precheck® can i be disqualified/suspended from tsa precheck®? yes. if you commit certain violations of federal security regulations, such as assault, threat, intimidation, or interference with flight crew, physical or sexual assault or threat of physical or sexual assault of any individual on an aircraft, interference with security operations, access control violations, providing false or fraudulent documents, making a bomb threat, or bringing a firearm, explosive, or other prohibited item to an airport or onboard an aircraft, you are denied expedited screening for a period of time. the duration of disqualification from participation in tsa precheck® is related to the seriousness of the violation and/or a repeated history of regulatory violations. membership suspension can last up to five years for a first time offense or be permanent for egregious incidents or repeat offenses. tsa precheck® enrollees undergo recurrent criminal history vetting as a condition of their tsa precheck® enrollment. temporary suspensions may occur as a result of recurrent vetting. resolution typically takes less than 30 days, but can take up to 90 days. tsa precheck® enrollees found to have committed a disqualifying offense may have their tsa precheck® enrollment temporarily suspended or permanently disqualified, depending on the severity of the offense. if you are unclear why you are not receiving the tsa precheck® indicator on your boarding pass, first check that your membership has not expired by looking up your ktn (known traveler number) here . if your ktn is still active, confirm with your airline that your ktn, name, and date of birth are accurate. if you still do not have a tsa precheck® indicator on your boarding pass, or if you have questions concerning your tsa precheck® status, we're here to assist you. you can reach out to us through x (twitter @asktsa) , facebook messenger ( http://www.fb.com/asktsa ), apple business chat or by texting "travel" to asktsa (275-872 ). you can also contact the tsa contact center at (866) 289-9673 or fill out an online form. if you've received a notice of violation, please reach out to your assigned case agent please note: tsa uses unpredictable security measures, both seen and unseen, throughout the airport. all travelers will be screened, and no individual is guaranteed expedited screening. do children need to apply for tsa precheck®? generally, children do not need to apply for tsa precheck unless they routinely travel alone. when traveling as a family, and the adults have tsa precheck, children 17 and under are eligible for tsa precheck without having their own known traveler number (ktn). learn the details and how it works depending on their age. children 12 and under: can join you in tsa precheck lanes. the tsa precheck indicator does not have to be on the child’s boarding pass for them to accompany you in the tsa precheck lane. children 13-17: can join you in the tsa precheck lane only when the tsa precheck indicator appears on the child's boarding pass. to get the tsa precheck indicator on your child’s boarding pass make sure: the adult and the child are on the same airline reservation, the adult’s boarding pass has the tsa precheck indicator. if the child does not have their own ktn, you should not enter one for the child on the reservation, leave the ktn field blank. if the child is on a separate airline reservation, they will not be able to get tsa precheck unless they have their own ktn. children traveling alone: if your child is traveling alone routinely, they should enroll in tsa precheck or another dhs trusted traveler program . if you are escorting your child with a gate pass, you will be directed to standard screening as tsa precheck benefits do not apply to gate passes regardless of membership status. unaccompanied minors, without an adult escort, in the tsa precheck lanes, must show an acceptable id to receive expedited screening. contact the airline for questions regarding their specific id requirements for travelers under 18. do i need to include aliases, birth or former name(s) no longer used when applying for tsa precheck? yes, tsa requires all names used, current and past. you do not need to provide documents that prove you have previously used another name or alias. the name provided on the tsa precheck® application must be the name used when making your airline travel reservations. the name on your application must be an exact match to the name on the identification and proof of citizenship/immigration documents you provide at enrollment. does the name on my airline reservation have to match the name on my application? yes. the name submitted on your airline reservation must be an exact match to the name you provided on your application. if you use a frequent flyer account or online travel profile, ensure that your name is properly saved. if you included your middle name in your tsa precheck application, you must add it when booking your airline reservation. how can i find an enrollment center? find all active tsa precheck® enrollment provider locations by entering a zip code in the search box. find an enrollment center for global entry, nexus, or sentri by first selecting the state where you wish to visit an enrollment center. how do i apply for tsa precheck®? visit tsa.gov/precheck to select the authorized enrollment provider that best fits your needs and has an enrollment location near you. you can pre-enroll online and make an appointment for the in-person visit, or walk-in to an enrollment center without an appointment. the online application takes about five minutes to complete, and the in-person visit typically lasts 10 minutes. during your visit, the enrollment provider will check your identity documents, take your fingerprints and photo, then collect payment. please note, if enrolling through clear, you have the option to pay online during the pre-enrollment step. important: clear, idemia, and telos are the only authorized enrollment providers for tsa precheck. make sure you are enrolling or renewing with one of these companies. any website that claims to allow consumers to register for tsa precheck that does not end in “.gov” is not an official tsa precheck website. how do i know when i m approved for tsa precheck®? most applicants receive their known traveler number (ktn) in 3-5 days, though some applications can take up to 60 days. applicants can receive updates on their enrollment application status by email, phone, text or by checking online through the enrollment provider they applied with. if you've forgotten who you enrolled through, click here . how does tsa protect my personal data when i apply for tsa precheck, and how can i ensure tsa precheck providers do not sell it to a third party? tsa has strict requirements and protects all applicants’ data. no applicant information can be used for any purpose other than tsa precheck enrollment and vetting without the prior consent of the applicant. please note, you can opt-in or opt-out to receive marketing promotions / communications at any time through your enrollment provider. tsa also protects your data by ensuring it is encrypted, stored and transmitted securely using methods that protect the information from unauthorized retrieval or use. how should i fill out my name on my application? the name on your application must be an exact match to the name on the identification and proof of citizenship/immigration documents you provide at enrollment. the name provided must be the name used when making your airline travel reservations. how was the application fee determined? the fee maintains your eligibility for a period of 5 years, and covers the operational costs associated with the tsa precheck® application program. for in-depth information on the tsa component of the fee, please see the tsa precheck® application program tsa component fee development report . how will i know that i can access tsa precheck® screening lanes? participating airlines display a tsa precheck® indicator directly on your boarding pass if you are eligible for tsa precheck based on your provided known traveler number (ktn). please ensure you add your ktn to your airline reservation while booking the reservation. if you do not have a valid boarding pass with a tsa precheck indicator on it, you cannot access the tsa precheck lane. if you believe you should have the tsa precheck indicator on your boarding pass but did not receive it, we're here to assist you. you can reach out to us through x (twitter @asktsa) , facebook messenger ( http://www.fb.com/asktsa ), apple business chat or by texting "travel" to asktsa (275-872 ). you can also contact the tsa contact center at (866) 289-9673 or fill out an online form. i think i may have fraudulently enrolled in tsa precheck®, what do i do? can i get a refund? if you or someone you know believes they have fallen victim to a scam, report it to your local police department and file a report at the federal trade commission’s website, reportfraud.ftc.gov . additionally, contact your bank or credit card company immediately and inform them of the fraudulent charge. please note, tsa will not issue a reimbursement to applicants who attempt to enroll in tsa precheck® through a fraudulent website. my name contains a special character such as a hyphen (-) or an apostrophe (’), how do i fill my name when booking an airline reservation as a tsa precheck member? the name provided on your tsa precheck application and the identification and proof of citizenship/immigration documents provided at enrollment must be the exact name used when making your airline travel reservations. if your name includes a hyphen (e.g. billings-smith) or an apostrophe (e.g. o’sullivan), please ensure to fill your first, middle and last name in the appropriate boxes when completing the airline reservation (e.g. amelia louise o’sullivan). my personal information has changed. how do i update my information so that i can continue to receive tsa precheck®? if you are a member of the tsa precheck® application program, please contact the enrollment provider you applied with. if you can’t remember your enrollment provider, use our ktn lookup tool to find them. they will provide you with information on how to change your personal information. if you change your name and do not update your tsa precheck membership to match the new details, you will not be able to use your tsa precheck benefits when traveling until the name change process is completed. if you change your name and do not update your tsa precheck membership to match the new details, you will not be able to use your tsa precheck benefits when traveling until the name change process is completed. what are the accepted payment methods for the application fee? when enrolling, be sure to check with your specific enrollment provider for all accepted payment methods. several credit cards offer assistance with enrollment costs. what documentation do i need to provide when applying for tsa precheck®? click here to learn more about what documents you are required to bring when applying for tsa precheck®. who can apply for tsa precheck®? the tsa precheck® application program is only open to u.s. citizens, u.s. nationals and lawful permanent residents. applicants may be ineligible due to incomplete or false application information, certain violations of federal security regulations, or disqualifying criminal offenses and factors . global entry, nexus, and sentri allow some foreign citizens to apply. you can find more information on all programs here . will i need to obtain a real id to travel if i have tsa precheck®? all travelers, including tsa precheck® enrollees, must have a real id or other acceptable form of identification (e.g., passport) in order to fly once tsa is enforcing the real id requirement at airports. to obtain a real id, contact your state’s driver’s licensing agency. learn more about real id by reviewing real id faqs . will i receive an id card or other credential to use tsa precheck® lanes? no, there is no tsa precheck card. travelers should enter their known traveler number in their airline reservation to receive a tsa precheck® indicator on their boarding pass. experiencing tsa precheck® at the airport can i access the tsa precheck® lane by showing my global entry, nexus, or sentri card or tsa precheck® approval notification? no. to receive tsa precheck®, you must include your known traveler number (your cbp passid for global entry, nexus, or sentri members) in the appropriate field of your airline reservation, and the tsa precheck® indicator must be displayed on the boarding pass to access the lanes. can i use tsa precheck® when flying from a u.s. airport to a foreign country? yes. tsa precheck® is available when you depart from a u.s. airport to a foreign country, and for domestic, connecting flights after you return to the united states. if you travel internationally four or more times a year, consider enrolling in global entry instead of tsa precheck®. with global entry you’ll receive expedited customs processing when entering the united states, and you’ll receive tsa precheck® when flying from u.s. airports. learn more about global entry . do gate passes give tsa precheck® benefits to parents accompanying minors through security? no. parents accompanying children through airport security via gate passes will always be directed to standard screening as tsa precheck benefits do not apply to gate passes. this applies even if the parent has enrolled in tsa precheck. how do i know if i can access tsa precheck® screening? participating airlines display a tsa precheck® indicator (such as tsaprechk, tsa pre, or tsa precheck®) on boarding passes to help you recognize when you are eligible for tsa precheck® on your flight. you must have the tsa precheck® indicator on your boarding pass before you can access the tsa precheck® screening lane. how long does my tsa precheck® membership last? tsa precheck® memberships last five years. i am no longer receiving tsa precheck® on my boarding pass. how can i access tsa precheck®? if you consistently do not receive tsa precheck®, we're here to assist you. you can reach out to us through x (twitter @asktsa) , facebook messenger ( http://www.fb.com/asktsa ), apple business chat or by texting "travel" to asktsa (275-872 ). you can also contact the tsa contact center at (866) 289-9673 or fill out an online form. please be aware that if you have violated certain federal security regulations, including tsa security regulations, your access to tsa precheck® screening will be suspended. the duration of suspension from participation in tsa precheck® is related to the seriousness of the violation and/or a repeated history of regulatory violations. membership suspension can last up to five years for a first time offense or be permanent for egregious incidents or repeat offenses. i am traveling with my family; can they also use the tsa precheck® lane? yes, children 17 and under are eligible for tsa precheck screening if they meet certain criteria. anyone 18 and older must have their own known traveler number and enter it when booking their airline reservation. children 12 and under: can join you in tsa precheck lanes. the tsa precheck indicator does not have to be on the child’s boarding pass for them to accompany you in the tsa precheck lane. children 13-17: can join you in the tsa precheck lane only when the tsa precheck indicator appears on the child's boarding pass. to get the tsa precheck indicator on your child’s boarding pass make sure: the adult and the child are on the same airline reservation, the adult’s boarding pass has the tsa precheck indicator. if the child does not have their own ktn, you should not enter one for the child on the reservation, leave the ktn field blank. if the child is on a separate airline reservation, they will not be able to get tsa precheck unless they have their own ktn. children traveling alone: if your child is traveling alone routinely, they should enroll in tsa precheck or another dhs trusted traveler program . if you are escorting your child with a gate pass, you will be directed to standard screening as tsa precheck benefits do not apply to gate passes regardless of membership status. unaccompanied minors, without an adult escort, in the tsa precheck lanes, must show an acceptable id to receive expedited screening. contact the airline for questions regarding their specific id requirements for travelers under 18. i entered my known traveler number (ktn) in my reservation, but there s no tsa precheck® indicator on my boarding pass. what should i do? first, check that your membership has not expired by looking up your account here . if still active, confirm with your airline that your known traveler number, name, and date of birth are accurate and that your airline participates in tsa precheck®. if you still do not have a tsa precheck indicator on your boarding pass, we can assist. you can reach out to us through x (twitter @asktsa) , facebook messenger ( http://www.fb.com/asktsa ), apple business chat or by texting "travel" to asktsa (275-872 ). you can also contact the tsa contact center at (866) 289-9673 or by filling out an online form. . if possible, please contact tsa within 72 hours of experiencing problems with your tsa precheck benefits to allow tsa the ability to trouble shoot the issue. i think my tsa precheck membership was suspended or revoked, but i'm not sure why, what do i do? first, check that your membership has not expired by looking up your ktn (known traveler number) here . you can also confirm your airline participates in the tsa precheck® program, by clicking here . if your ktn is still active, confirm with your airline that your ktn, name, and date of birth are accurate. if you still do not have a tsa precheck® indicator on your boarding pass, or if you have questions concerning your tsa precheck® status, we're here to assist you. you can reach out to us through x (twitter @asktsa) , facebook messenger ( http://www.fb.com/asktsa ), apple business chat or by texting "travel" to asktsa (275-872) . you can also contact the tsa contact center at (866) 289-9673 or fill out an online form. if you received a notice of violation, please contact your case agent. if i am tsa precheck® eligible, am i guaranteed expedited screening? no, tsa uses unpredictable security measures, both seen and unseen, throughout the airport. all travelers will be screened, and no individual is guaranteed expedited screening. my child is traveling alone, do they need a real id? tsa does not require children under 18 to provide identification when traveling within the united states. if your child is traveling alone (without an adult escort) and has tsa precheck, they will need to present an acceptable id to receive tsa precheck screening. it is also important to contact your airline for questions regarding specific id requirements for travelers under 18. what happens if i cannot go through, or opt-out of, metal detector screening? you may request advanced imaging technology (ait) screening if you are not able to undergo or opt-out of metal detector screening. learn about the special procedures for persons with disabilities or medical conditions. what happens when there isn’t a dedicated tsa precheck® lane? tsa precheck® screening may still be an option through the standard screening lane when dedicated tsa precheck® screening lanes are not available. if a tsa precheck® lane is not available, please show your tsa precheck® boarding pass and you may be able to keep 3-1-1 liquids and laptops in your bag, and shoes and light jackets on while accessing the standard screening lane. eligible passengers should check with the tsa officer on duty. which airlines participate in tsa precheck®? check the tsa precheck® airports and airlines map for a current list of participating airlines. why can t i use the tsa precheck® lanes when traveling on any airline? passengers must be traveling on an airline that has entered into a partnership with tsa to offer tsa precheck®. global entry, nexus, and sentri how can i switch from tsa precheck to global entry? you cannot switch or upgrade between programs. if you are a tsa precheck application program member and would like to join cbp’s global entry program because you frequently travel internationally, you must enroll with global entry as a new applicant and pay their enrollment fee. the cost to enroll in global entry is $120 for five years of membership. current tsa precheck members may be eligible for expedited global entry application processing. tsa precheck members need to provide cbp their known traveler number (ktn) when completing the application. the ktn is 9 or 10 digits long, can be a combination of numbers and letters, and begins with tt, te or ac. use the ktn look up tool to find your tsa precheck application program ktn. tsa precheck members must complete the global entry application process before their tsa precheck membership expires or they will not receive tsa precheck screening until their global entry application is approved. if you have a ktn, but did not apply via the tsa precheck application program, you are not eligible for this expedited application process. i am having trouble with my global entry/nexus/sentri membership; whom can i contact? if you have questions or concerns about your global entry, nexus, or sentri membership, you may visit the trusted traveler program website or contact customs and border protection at (877) 227-5511 or by email . what is the difference between global entry, tsa precheck® and the other trusted traveler programs? tsa precheck® and global entry are both department of homeland security (dhs) trusted traveler programs. tsa precheck® provides expedited security screening benefits for flights departing from u.s. airports. global entry provides expedited u.s. customs screening for international air travelers when entering the united states. global entry members also receive tsa precheck® benefits as part of their membership. before you apply, we recommend that you review the various dhs trusted traveler programs, such as the tsa precheck® application program, global entry, nexus, or sentri, to ensure you meet the eligibility requirements and determine the best program for you. if you travel internationally four or more times a year, consider enrolling in global entry. if you take less than four international trips a year, tsa precheck is a great choice for domestic travelers. for more information on all of the dhs trusted traveler programs use the dhs interactive trusted traveler tool . known traveler number (ktn) how do i add my known traveler number (ktn) to previous reservations? contact your airline by phone or online to add your known traveler number (ktn). remember to enter your full name, date of birth and ktn exactly as you provided during enrollment because if there is a mismatch in the data entry in the travel reservation, you will not receive the tsa precheck® indicator on your boarding pass. how do i use my known traveler number or ktn? once you have been assigned a known traveler number (ktn), you must include this number in the ‘ktn' field of each reservation you make with a participating airline. the ktn also can be added when booking reservations online via a participating airline website, by phone with an airline reservation agent or with the travel management company making reservations. save your ktn to any frequent flyer profiles, employer booking systems or online travel websites that you use. i forgot my known traveler number (ktn). how do i find it? if you are a member of the tsa precheck® application program, look up your known traveler number (ktn) here . if you are a member of another trusted traveler program, such as global entry, nexus, or sentri, log on to the trusted traveler program website to obtain your passid, which is your ktn. if your tsa precheck® benefits come through hme, twic®, or dod, please visit these respective links for additional information: hme , twic® , dod . if your tsa precheck® benefit comes through tsa precheck® for dhs employees, please visit tsa precheck® for dhs employees | tsa precheck® for additional information. what is a known traveler number (ktn)? a known traveler number (ktn) is issued to all individuals approved to receive tsa precheck® expedited screening. the ktn must be added in the ktn field when booking airline travel reservations to have the tsa precheck® indicator appear on your boarding pass. for members approved for the tsa precheck® application program, this number is 9 or 10 digits long, can be a combination of numbers and letters and typically begins with tt for those who enrolled through idemia, te for those who enrolled through telos, or ac for those who enrolled through clear all of which are official tsa precheck® enrollment providers. for members approved for global entry, nexus, or sentri, the ktn is the cbp pass id number. this nine-digit number usually begins with 10, 13, 14, 15, 16, 50, 70, 80, 95, 98, or 99 and can be found on the back of your nexus, sentri, or global entry card in the upper-left corner or by logging on to the trusted traveler programs website. your trusted traveler card will not grant you access to tsa precheck® lanes, instead you must add your pass id number in the ktn field when making airline reservations to ensure the tsa precheck® indicator appears on your boarding pass. renewing tsa precheck® how do i renew my tsa precheck® membership? members may renew their tsa precheck® membership online up to six months before their expiration date. the new membership period begins as the current one ends, so there is no disadvantage to renewing early. alternatively, members can renew in person at an enrollment center. if members have changed their name since enrollment, they may either visit an enrollment center to complete the renewal process in-person or update their name by contacting the enrollment provider they have selected to process their renewal (up to six months before the expiration date). name changes may take up to 45 days to complete and processing time varies by individual. name changes may take up to 45 days to complete and processing time varies by individual. how long does it take to get approved? most applicants receive approval notification in 3-5 days, though some applications can take up to 60 days. considering this, applicants are encouraged to renew at least 60 days prior to expiry. tsa will notify members with eligibility results. how much does tsa precheck® renewal cost? the cost for tsa precheck® membership renewal varies by enrollment provider. please find current offerings here . the fee maintains your eligibility for a period of 5 years, and covers the operational costs associated with the background check. how will i know when my tsa precheck® membership expires? tsa's enrollment providers will send a renewal notification to members who have a valid email and/or phone number on record. members will receive notification six months, three months, one month, and two weeks prior to their expiration. emails will come from idemia /universal enroll. you may also look up your expiration date online . i think i may have fraudulently renewed tsa precheck®, what do i do? can i get a refund? if you or someone you know believes they have fallen victim to a scam, report it to your local police department and file a report at the federal trade commission's website, reportfraud.ftc.gov . additionally, contact your bank or credit card company immediately and inform them of the fraudulent charge. please note, tsa will not issue a reimbursement to applicants who attempt to renew tsa precheck® through a fraudulent website. i think my tsa precheck membership was suspended or revoked, but i m not sure why, what do i do? first, check that your membership has not expired by looking up your ktn (known traveler number) here . you can also confirm your airline participates in the tsa precheck® program, by clicking here . if your ktn is still active, confirm with your airline that your ktn, name, and date of birth are accurate. if you still do not have a tsa precheck® indicator on your boarding pass, or if you have questions concerning your tsa precheck® status, we're here to assist you. you can reach out to us through x (twitter @asktsa) , facebook messenger ( http://www.fb.com/asktsa ), apple business chat or by texting "travel" to asktsa (275-872) . you can also contact the tsa contact center at (866) 289-9673 or fill out an online form. if you received a notice of violation, please contact your case agent. if a flight is booked before my known traveler number (ktn) expired, but the flight takes place after my ktn expires, do i get tsa precheck® screening? no, you will not receive tsa precheck® on your boarding pass if your known traveler number has expired. you must renew before expiration to continue receiving tsa precheck on your boarding pass. renew online here . my tsa precheck membership was suspended or revoked, am i entitled to get that lost time back to extend my tsa precheck benefits? you are eligible for the return of time lost if suspension occurred as a result of false match to another individual, resulting in revocation of tsa precheck benefits. you are not eligible for the return of time lost due to suspension resulting from a tsa checkpoint or faa violation, unless the suspension went beyond the intended disqualification period. you are not eligible for the return of time lost due to recurrent vetting for criminal history records checks. what is the difference between redress and reconsideration? reconsideration is the process applicable to persons who have been disqualified from tsa precheck® on account of a regulatory violation who seek tsa to reconsider the length of the period of disqualification. redress is the process applicable to persons who have been incorrectly disqualified from tsa precheck® (meaning individuals incorrectly identified as having committed a regulatory violation or individuals correctly identified as having committed a regulatory violation but erroneously disqualified for longer than the intended disqualification period). what might disqualify me from renewing my tsa precheck® membership? if you commit certain violations of federal security regulations, such as assault, threat, intimidation, or interference with flight crew, physical or sexual assault or threat of physical or sexual assault of any individual on an aircraft, interference with security operations, access control violations, providing false or fraudulent documents, making a bomb threat, or bringing a firearm, explosive, or other prohibited item to an airport or onboard an aircraft, you are denied expedited screening for a period of time. the duration of disqualification from participation in tsa precheck® is related to the seriousness of the violation and/or a repeated history of regulatory violations. membership suspension can last up to five years for a first time offense or be permanent for egregious incidents or repeat offenses. tsa precheck® enrollees undergo recurrent criminal history vetting as a condition of their tsa precheck® enrollment. if tsa is notified of new criminal records while you are a member of tsa precheck®, your eligibility for tsa precheck® expedited screening may be temporarily suspended while tsa investigates the new criminal information. this process typically takes less than 30 days, but can take up to 90 days. tsa precheck® enrollees found to have committed a disqualifying offense may have their tsa precheck® enrollment temporarily suspended or permanently disqualified, depending on the severity of the offense. if you are unclear why you are not receiving the tsa precheck® indicator on your boarding pass, first check that your membership has not expired by looking up your ktn (known traveler number) here . you can also confirm your airline participates in the tsa precheck® program, by clicking here . if your ktn is still active, confirm with your airline that your ktn, name, and date of birth are accurate. if you still do not have a tsa precheck® indicator on your boarding pass, or if you have questions concerning your tsa precheck® status, we're here to assist you. you can reach out to us through x (twitter @asktsa) , facebook messenger ( http://www.fb.com/asktsa ), apple business chat or by texting "travel" to asktsa (275-872) . you can also contact the tsa contact center at (866) 289-9673 or fill out an online form. if you received a notice of violation, please contact your case agent. please note: tsa uses unpredictable security measures, both seen and unseen, throughout the airport. all travelers will be screened, and no individual is guaranteed expedited screening. when should i renew my tsa precheck® membership? you may renew your membership online up to six months before the expiration date with the new membership beginning as the current one ends. tsa recommends you renew at least 60 days prior to your expiration to avoid a lapse in benefits. why would i need to renew in person? some individuals may need to renew in person, for example, if they have changed their name and have not gone through tsa’s name update process. these members may either visit an enrollment center to complete the renewal process in-person or update their name with the enrollment provider with which they would like to renew. please click here to view enrollment providers' contact information. name changes may take up to 45 days to complete and processing time varies by individual. will i keep my same ktn after i renew? yes. members will keep the same ktn during the renewal process. tsa precheck® enrollment providers do tsa or enrollment providers price match? no, tsa does not offer price matching, please check out the current providers' details at tsa.gov/precheck to find a provider's offering that suits your needs. several credit cards offer assistance with application fee costs. does the enrollment process differ between providers? no. the requirements to enroll in the tsa precheck program are the same among all the enrollment providers in which the applicant chooses. details on each enrollment provider's offering such as locations, pricing and promotions can be found at tsa.gov/precheck and travelers can select the enrollment provider that best suits their needs. i forgot who i enrolled with. how can i find it? to determine which tsa precheck enrollment provider you have enrolled with, click here . if i pre-enrolled with one provider and then see that a different provider has a cheaper price, can i switch enrollment providers mid-stream? you are not charged the application fee until you have completed your application in person and can switch enrollment providers until you have completed the enrollment process at an onsite provider location. please note you will need to re-enroll with the new provider. if your application is incomplete, your data will be purged after 180 days from the enrollment provider's system. however, once the in-person process is complete for both new applications and renewals and payment is taken, there are no refunds. if i renew with a different enrollment provider, will my known traveler number (ktn) change? no, your known traveler number (ktn) remains the same regardless of enrollment provider selected. what are the differences between enrollment providers? all enrollment providers facilitate tsa precheck enrollments and renewals on tsa's behalf. providers vary in their enrollment locations, prices, and other promotional offers they may provide applicants. details on each enrollment provider's offering can be found at tsa.gov/precheck and travelers can select the enrollment provider that best suits their needs. what is a tsa precheck® enrollment provider? a tsa precheck enrollment provider is a private sector company that is contracted by tsa to collect tsa precheck enrollment information from applicants and submit this data to tsa and the fbi. applicant enrollments are conducted by these enrollment providers, and providers must meet tsa contract requirements, including strict requirements related to data privacy and security. enrollment data is submitted to tsa securely, and tsa uses the enrollment information to perform a background check on the applicant. tsa makes the final decision on tsa precheck eligibility. the current enrollment providers are clear, idemia and telos. travelers can enroll through the provider that best suits their needs. all available enrollment provider offerings are detailed on tsa.gov/precheck . when i renew my tsa precheck membership, can i switch enrollment providers? yes, you can renew through any enrollment provider you choose. to see available renewal offers visit tsa.gov/precheck . will the price of tsa precheck® change? yes. each enrollment provider is allowed to set its own prices for tsa precheck enrollment and renewal fees. the fee provided to tsa to conduct vetting, adjudication, and program support will be consistent across all enrollment providers. to see current available pricing visit tsa.gov/precheck . tsa precheck® for active duty military and dod civilians are my non-dod affiliated military dependents eligible for free tsa precheck®? no, tsa precheck® benefits do not extend to non-dod affiliated military adult dependents age 18 and over. be sure to enroll here for tsa precheck® benefits. note: also check credit cards and loyalty programs featuring tsa precheck® here for eligible credit cards and loyalty rewards programs featuring fee reimbursement. as an individual service member, how can i transport weapons and ammunition? firearms, ammunition, and firearm parts are prohibited in carry-on baggage and may be transported in checked baggage only. if you have just returned from overseas duty or any assignment where you carried a firearm or ammunition, check your carry-on bag and other belongings to ensure firearms, parts, and ammunition are not present. contact asktsa or tsa contact center with questions you have regarding tsa firearm regulations and for clarification on what you may or may not transport in your carry-on or checked baggage. rules for individually transporting firearms and ammunition . rules for transporting sharp objects and tool . list of prohibited hazardous materials . can tsa precheck® benefits be used for both official and personal travel? yes. members of the u.s. armed forces and dod federal civilians can use tsa precheck® benefits for both official and personal travel. be sure to update all travel reservations with your dod id number listed as the known traveler number (ktn) to enjoy benefits. the ktn also can be added when booking reservations online via a participating airline website, by phone with an airline reservation agent or with the travel management company making reservations. save your ktn to any frequent flyer profiles, employer booking systems or online travel websites that you use. do cadets and midshipmen of military service academies receive free tsa precheck® benefits? yes. cadets and midshipmen of the u.s. military academy at west point, u.s. air force academy, u.s. naval academy, and u.s. coast guard academy receive free tsa precheck® benefits. add your dod id number in the "known traveler number" (ktn) field when booking flight reservations. do i present my common access card at the checkpoint to access the tsa precheck® lane? no. all members of the u.s. armed forces must include their dod id number in the known traveler number field when making flight reservations and a tsa precheck® indicator must be visible on your boarding pass. the airlines will print a tsa precheck® indicator (such as tsaprechk, tsa pre, or tsa precheck®) on boarding passes to help you recognize when you are eligible for tsa precheck® on your flight. you cannot access the tsa precheck® lane by presenting your cac or other documentation. do merchant marine academy cadets receive free tsa precheck benefits? yes, u.s. citizens and/or lawful permanent resident cadets and students of the u.s. merchant marine academy and six state maritime academies are eligible to receive free tsa precheck benefits through the transportation worker identification credential (twic) program. students enrolled at these academies are eligible to enroll for twic, and most u.s. merchant mariners are required to maintain a valid twic to obtain their merchant mariner credential. when making an airline reservation, enter the credential identification number (cin) which is the eight-digit number printed under the bottom left of the barcode on the back of the twic® card in the known traveler number (ktn) field. for cardholders with the newest version of the twic card, the cin is also embossed on the front of the card. do my existing tsa precheck® membership benefits continue after leaving dod? no, tsa precheck® benefits do not continue after leaving dod. be sure to enroll upon retirement or leaving dod to continue enjoying tsa precheck® benefits . how can i opt-in for tsa precheck® as a dod civilian? dod federal civilian employees must opt-in to tsa precheck® at the id card office online . after selecting the "my profile" and the "civ" menu tab when logged into the website, users will be guided through the opt-in process for tsa precheck. civilian employees need to opt-in only once. for more information about tsa precheck for dod civilian employees, please visit milconnect . members of the u.s. armed forces do not need to opt-in. how do i get tsa precheck® as a member of the u.s. armed forces? enter the dod id number from the back of your common access card (cac) into the “known traveler number” field of your flight reservations or when updating your defense travel system profile for official travel. dod federal civilian employees must opt-in via milconnect before using their known traveler number. i am a tsa precheck passenger and i have a metal implant or medical device. what should i do? inform the tsa officer that you have a metal implant or medical device. if you have been issued a boarding pass with the tsa precheck indicator, you may request advanced imaging technology (ait) screening, if available. requesting ait screening through a tsa officer, prior to going through the walkthrough metal detector, may enable you to keep your shoes on throughout the screening process. individuals with an internal medical device such as a pacemaker should not be screened by a walk-through metal detector. consult with your physician prior to flying. if you choose not to be screened through the advanced imaging technology (ait), or a walk-through metal detector (wtmd), you will undergo a pat-down screening. click here for more information about special procedures for persons with disabilities or medical conditions. when traveling with a unit, how can i transport weapons and ammunition? the unit must declare weapons and ammunition to the aircraft operator. weapons must be unloaded. weapons must be collectively secured in a crate and banded or individually locked in a hard-sided case. ammunition must also be securely packed in fiber (such as cardboard), wood or metal boxes, or other packaging specifically designed to carry small amounts of ammunition. firearm magazines/clips for packing ammunition must be completely and securely enclosing any ammunition (e.g., by securely covering the exposed portions of the magazine or by securely placing the magazine in a pouch, holder or holster). you may carry ammunition in the same hard-sided case as the firearm, if you pack it as described above. a unit representative must submit the unit's official travel orders and an inventory of weapons and ammunition being transported. the unit representative must certify to tsa in writing that the weapons are unloaded. contact us through x (twitter @asktsa) , facebook messenger ( http://www.fb.com/asktsa ), apple business chat or by texting "travel" to asktsa (275-872) . you can also contact the tsa contact center at (866) 289-9673 or fill out an online form with questions you have regarding tsa firearm regulations and for clarification on what you may or may not transport in your carry-on or checked baggage. tsa precheck® for persons with disabilities and medical conditions can i request to use the tsa precheck® lane because of my disability or medical condition? no. only travelers who have a valid boarding pass with the tsa precheck® indicator printed on the boarding pass will have access to the tsa precheck® lanes. can the fee for tsa precheck® be waived because i have a disability or medical condition? no. the application fee covers the cost of the background check and cannot be waived. i am a tsa precheck passenger and i have a metal implant or medical device. what should i do? inform the tsa officer that you have a metal implant or medical device. if you have been issued a boarding pass with the tsa precheck indicator, you may request advanced imaging technology (ait) screening, if available. requesting ait screening through a tsa officer, prior to going through the walkthrough metal detector, may enable you to keep your shoes on throughout the screening process. individuals with an internal medical device such as a pacemaker should not be screened by a walk-through metal detector. consult with your physician prior to flying. if you choose not to be screened through the advanced imaging technology (ait), or a walk-through metal detector (wtmd), you will undergo a pat-down screening. click here for more information about special procedures for persons with disabilities or medical conditions. i need assistance during screening. is there a number i can call before my flight? tsa cares is a helpline that provides travelers with disabilities, medical conditions and other special circumstances additional assistance during the security screening process. contact us 72 hours prior to traveling with questions about screening policies, procedures and what to expect at the security checkpoint. you may call (855) 787-2227 or submit an online form . return to top travel media about for industry contact an official website of the u.s. department of homeland security accessibility a - z index civil enforcement foia get the latest news innovation insider threat metrics no fear office of inspector general privacy report fraud, waste abuse security issues usa.gov