legal name change in south dakota | sd ujs self help | sd ujs skip to main content closures: custer view additional information notice: ujs court offices will be closed on monday, sept. 7, 2026, for labor day. we want to hear from you! ujs is conducting the 2026 court user survey to collect anonymous feedback from court users to improve court services. participation is voluntary, anonymous, and will not affect any court case. take the survey . about us careers programs and services make payments directory site navigation supreme court supreme court the south dakota supreme court serves as the state s highest judicial authority. through its various functions, the supreme court plays a vital role in maintaining the integrity of the legal system and promoting transparency. about the supreme court supreme court justices chief justice steven r. jensen justice mark e. salter justice patricia j. devaney justice scott p. myren justice robert gusinsky find supreme court term of court opinions summary dispositions rules hearings published rules judiciary messages court in session term of court cases traveling term of court listen live to supreme court circuit courts circuit courts south dakota is comprised of seven judicial circuit courts serving all counties across the state. the circuit courts play a vital role in maintaining the integrity of the legal system. don t know what circuit your in, click the court finder button below. court finder locate a circuit first judicial circuit second judicial circuit third judicial circuit fourth judicial circuit fifth judicial circuit sixth judicial circuit seventh judicial circuit treatment courts treatment courts in south dakota empower individuals with substance use and mental health disorders to rebuild lives and strengthen communities. explore treatment courts self help self help find information on how to get legal help, including resources available for low or no cost legal aid. browse by topics to find helpful legal tips and information on protection orders, self representation, spanish forms, and more. browse all topics self help topics pro se forms family law help civil law help criminal law help get legal help representing yourself understanding courts espa olas formas (spanish forms) areas of interest filing for divorce eviction housing assistance resources military veterans resources guardianship shared parenting guidelines plans obtaining a protection order understanding sd courts court structure fees and costs how the court assists starting a court action small claims court legal glossary online services online services to make accessing online services even easier, we ve gathered these helpful resources and links to our online services. find online services in the menu to the right. court record access court record search find court date ecourts public access record search (pars) civil money judgment helpful links virtual courtrooms make payments sd jurors information sd court notifications court forms form file search locate a particular form or file by search term, category, circuit or language by using the filter function. to search the entire ujs website, use the main search box at the top of the page. form file search find common files by category criminal law family law civil law self representation attorney forms top searched forms divorce protection orders evictions guardianship spanish forms top searched forms shared parenting child custody child support public information public information access official court news, information and media resources from the south dakota unified judicial system. learn more public records cases records court records search ecourts public access records search (pars) civil money judgment query find court date juror resources for jurors juror login media resources media coverage in south dakota courts notifications sd court notifications boards and commissions court scams attorney resources for attorneys get quick access to essential resources, forms, and information needed for attorneys to navigate south dakota courts and cases. access all attorney information quick links attorney forms attorney resources circuit judge preferences file serve ecourts attorney notifications additional resources get involved as an attorney rural attorney recruitment program home self help civil law help name change in south dakota, you may change your first, middle, and/or last name. if granted by the court, you may also seek to amend your birth certificate to reflect the changed name. in order to legally change a name you must file a verified petition form with the clerk of court’s office in the county where you reside, provided you have resided there for more than six months. once you file the verified petition, the case will be assigned a case number. this number must be on all documents filed with the court. you should be aware that there may be costs associated with any required publication of the notice of your name change. laws and rules regarding this process can be found at sdcl ch. 21‐37 , sdcl 34‐25‐51 , and arsd 44:09:05:02 . it is up to you to decide whether and how you use a lawyer in your case. the law allows you to do a name change case without a lawyer. you can represent yourself, which is also known as pro se. a different set of forms must be submitted for changing the name of an adult versus changing the name of a minor child. the forms and instructions are provided below. you can also use the guide and file system to help you create the documents you need to begin the process. guide to representing yourself in court the south dakota unified judicial system (ujs) has developed the guide to representing yourself in south dakota courts to provide an overview of how the court system works in the state and to provide important information for representing yourself in court. view the guide guide and file name change forms the guide and file system will help you create the documents you need to begin the process of changing an adult or minor child's name and other documents you will need later. adult minor child self help representing yourself family law help civil law help criminal law help understanding the courts get legal help guide and file submit a question pro se forms adult name change forms all forms must be printed single-sided and completed in black ink you will need adobe acrobat reader installed to view these forms. if you do not have adobe reader, download it here . to download pdf documents right click on the link. this should pop up a menu. select option "save link as" or "save target as". locate where the document needs to be saved and click the save button. ujs-232 case filing statement form for south dakota case filing, collecting personal and business details, legal representation, and case type specifics for record-keeping. english ujs-024 instructions for adult name change step-by-step instructions for completing a legal name change for adults in south dakota. english ujs-025 verified petition for adult name change a petition form for adults requesting a legal name change, including personal details and reasons for the change. english ujs-026 notice of hearing for adult name change a form used to notify parties of the scheduled hearing date for an adult name change petition. english ujs-027 order for adult name change a court order form for finalizing an adult name change, issued after the hearing and approval by the court. english adult name change print all packet a combined packet of the forms listed above for an adult name change. english minor child name change forms all forms must be printed single-sided and completed in black or blue ink you will need adobe acrobat reader installed to view these forms. if you do not have adobe reader, click here to download. to download pdf documents right click on the link. this should pop up a menu. select option "save link as" or "save target as". locate where the document needs to be saved and click the save button. ujs-232 case filing statement form for south dakota case filing, collecting personal and business details, legal representation, and case type specifics for record-keeping. english ujs 029a checklist uncontested name change of a minor child a checklist for an uncontested name change of a minor child to ensure that you have all the forms completed, help you prepare for court, and assure the process is complete. english ujs-029 instructions uncontested name change of a minor child step-by-step instructions for completing a legal name change for an uncontested minor child in south dakota. english ujs-030 verified petition for name change of a minor a petition form for requesting a legal name change for a minor child, including personal details and reasons for the change. english ujs-031 notice of hearing for name change of minor child a form used to notify parties of the scheduled hearing date for a minor child name change petition. english ujs-032 a and b - notice and admission of service of verified petition for name change of a minor child and notice of hearing a form for notice and admission of service of a verified petition for name change of a minor child and notice of hearing. english ujs-033 consent for uncontested change of name minor child a parental consent form for an uncontested change of a name for a minor child. english ujs-034 order for name change of minor child a court order form to finalize a minor s name change after the hearing and approval by the court. english ujs-035 notice of entry of order for name change of a minor child a notice form to confirm that the court s order for a minor s name change has been entered into record. english ujs-036 statement of service for change of name minor child a form documenting that the court s name change order for a minor was properly served to all required parties. english ujs-037 child s consent for name change of minor child a form for obtaining consent from a minor child for their name change, if required by the court. english minor name change print all packet a combined packet of the forms listed above for a minor name change. english for questions on forms for specific questions on ujs forms, you can email ujs staff at ujssrlhelp@ujs.state.sd.us or call the legal form helpline at 1-855-784-0004 . related topics representing yourself learn how to represent yourself in court with information on starting a court action, filling out forms, doing legal research, preparing for court and a checklist. family law help family law relates to family relationships. this includes laws about adoption, child abuse and neglect, child custody, child support, parenting, divorce and marriage. about south dakota ujs about us court media coverage come work for us frequently asked questions a-z index help topics family law help representing yourself civil law help criminal law help understanding the courts get legal help helpful links information tribal courts board of bar examiners judicial qualifications commission judicial elections committee state bar of south dakota relay south dakota numbers south dakota ujs 2026 contact us sd government website privacy policy disclaimer website accessibility statement