chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document | uscis skip to main content an official website of the united states government here's how you know official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock ( a locked padlock ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. español sign in sign in create account menu sign in create account topics topics family family of green card holders (permanent residents) family of refugees and asylees family of u.s. citizens adoption before you start immigration through adoption military citizenship for military family members naturalization through military service humanitarian humanitarian parole refugees and asylum temporary protected status visit the u.s. change my nonimmigrant status extend your stay working in the united states permanent workers temporary (nonimmigrant) workers e-verify i-9 central avoid scams common scams find legal services report immigration scams careers at uscis career opportunities special hiring programs forms forms most accessed forms i-9, employment eligibility verification i-485, application to register permanent residence or adjust status i-765, application for employment authorization i-90, application to replace permanent resident card (green card) n-400, application for naturalization family based forms i-129f, petition for alien fiancé(e) i-130, petition for alien relative i-360, petition for amerasian, widow(er), or special immigrant i-600, petition to classify orphan as an immediate relative i-751, petition to remove conditions on residence all forms file online employment based forms i-129, petition for a nonimmigrant worker i-140, immigrant petition for alien workers i-526, immigrant petition by standalone investor i-539, application to extend/change nonimmigrant status humanitarian based forms i-589, application for asylum and for withholding of removal i-730, refugee/asylee relative petition i-821, application for temporary protected status newsroom newsroom all news alerts fact sheets news releases media contacts multimedia gallery social media directory speeches, statements, testimony citizenship citizenship learners apply for naturalization learn about citizenship educators educational products for educators resources for educational programs teacher training sessions organizations outreach tools naturalization-related data and statistics grants green card green card green card processes and procedures adjustment of status after we grant your green card employment authorization document visa availability and priority dates green card eligibility categories how to apply for a green card replace your green card while your green card application is pending with uscis laws laws legislation immigration and nationality act class action, settlement notices and agreements unlawful presence and inadmissibility policy manual regulations administrative appeals tools tools alien registration requirement self-help tools check case processing times case status online change of address e-request online account and technical support website resources archive a-z index website policies additional resources explore my options immigration and citizenship data uscis tools and resources contact us policy manual contents updates ina 8 cfr feedback book outline for policy manual policy manual search updates table of contents volume 1 - general policies and procedures volume 2 - nonimmigrants volume 3 - humanitarian protection and parole volume 4 - refugees and asylees volume 5 - adoptions volume 6 - immigrants volume 7 - adjustment of status volume 8 - admissibility volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief volume 10 - employment authorization volume 11 - travel and identity documents volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization part a - citizenship and naturalization policies and procedures part b - investigation and examination of alien part c - accommodations part d - general naturalization requirements part e - english and civics testing and exceptions part f - good moral character part g - spouses of u.s. citizens part h - children of u.s. citizens part i - military members and their families part j - oath of allegiance part k - certificates of citizenship and naturalization chapter 1 - purpose and background chapter 2 - certificate of citizenship chapter 3 - certificate of naturalization chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document chapter 5 - cancellation of certificate of citizenship or naturalization part l - revocation of naturalization breadcrumb home policy manual volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization part k - certificates of citizenship and naturalization chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document content navigation tabs guidance resources ( 12 ) appendices ( 1 ) updates ( 9 ) the table below serves as a quick reference guide for requests to replace certificates of naturalization or citizenship. [1] the sections and paragraphs that follow the table provide further guidance. [2] basis for application for replacement naturalization/citizenship document (form n-565) type of certificate correct uscis clerical error date of birth correction (not uscis clerical error) legal name change lost or mutilated certificate certificate of naturalization permitted (no fee required) not permitted per 8 cfr 338.5 permitted if name change through court order or operation of law, including common law name change evidenced by a state-issued identification document [3] (fee required) permitted (fee required) certificate of citizenship permitted (no fee required) permitted if correction through u.s. state court order or similar state vital record (fee required) permitted if name change through court order or operation of law, including common law name change evidenced by a state-issued identification document [4] (fee required) permitted (fee required) a. general provisions in general, an applicant submits an application for replacement naturalization/citizenship document ( form n-565 ) to request a replacement certificate of citizenship or certificate of naturalization. the application must be submitted with the appropriate fee and in accordance with the form instructions. [5] a person may request a replacement certificate to replace a lost or mutilated certificate. a person may also request a replacement certificate, without fee, in cases where: uscis issued a certificate that does not conform to the supportable facts shown on the applicant’s citizenship or naturalization application; [6] or uscis committed a clerical error in preparing the certificate. [7] b. requests to change name or date of birth 1. certificates of naturalization applicants may submit form n-565 to update their name on a replacement certificate of naturalization based on a name change ordered by a state court with jurisdiction, or by operation of law, including a common law name change evidenced by a state-issued identification document, or a name change resulting from marriage or divorce. [8] unless there is a uscis clerical error, regulations prohibit uscis from making any changes to a date of birth on a certificate of naturalization if the applicant has completed the naturalization process and sworn to the facts of the application, including the date of birth (dob). [9] 2. certificates of citizenship applicants may submit form n-565 to request issuance of a replacement certificate of citizenship to correct the name or dob if they have obtained a state-issued document with a corrected name or dob. along with their application and the appropriate fee, applicants must submit the court order or other state vital record. [10] c. clerical errors applicants may submit form n-565 to request issuance of a replacement certificate of citizenship or a certificate of naturalization to correct the name or dob if the correction is justified due to uscis error. [11] no filing fee is required when an application is filed based on a uscis error. footnotes [^ 1] where the table indicates a fee is required, applicants may be eligible for a waiver. see additional information on filing a fee waiver . [^ 2] for general information, see volume 11, travel and identity documents, part a, secure identity documents policies and procedures, chapter 3, reissuance of secure identity documents [ 11 uscis-pm a.3 ]. [^ 3] certain states recognize common law name changes. see volume 1, policies and procedures, part e, adjudications, chapter 5, verification of identifying information, section a, full legal name [ 1 uscis-pm e.5(a) ]. [^ 4] certain states recognize common law name changes. see volume 1, policies and procedures, part e, adjudications, chapter 5, verification of identifying information, section a, full legal name [ 1 uscis-pm e.5(a) ]. [^ 5] see fee schedule ( form g-1055 ). [^ 6] if an applicant’s sex is incorrectly listed on the certificate or declaration, uscis updates the certificate or declaration to be consistent with the sex at birth as generally evidenced by the birth certificate issued at the time of birth or issued closest to the time of birth. [^ 7] see 8 cfr 338.5(a) . [^ 8] see ina 343(c) . see volume 1, general policies and procedures, part e, adjudications, chapter 5, verification of identifying information, section a, full legal name [ 1 uscis-pm e.5(a) ]. [^ 9] see 8 cfr 338.5(e) . the regulation at 8 cfr 338.5(e) specifically provides that uscis will not deem a request to change a dob justified if the naturalization certificate contains the dob provided by the applicant at the time of naturalization. [^ 10] see chapter 2, certificate of citizenship, section b, contents of certificate of citizenship, subsection 3, changes to names or dates of birth per court order [ 12 uscis-pm k.2(b)(3) ]. [^ 11] see 8 cfr 338.5(a) , 8 cfr 338.5(c) , and 8 cfr 338.5(e) . see the immigration act of 1990, pub. l. 101-649 (pdf) (november 29, 1990), which transferred the authority over naturalization from the courts to the executive branch. for naturalization certificates issued by a court prior to 1991, the regulations provide that uscis may “authorize” the court to make a change on the certificate if it is the result of clerical error. however, uscis plays a minimal role in these cases. see 8 cfr 338.5(b) and 8 cfr 338.5(e) . resources legal authorities ina 310(b)(4) - naturalization authority and issuance of certificates ina 310 , 8 cfr 310 - naturalization authority ina 332 , 8 cfr 332 - naturalization administration, executive functions ina 338 , 8 cfr 338 - contents and issuance of certificate of naturalization ina 342 , 8 cfr 342 - administrative cancellation of certificates, documents, or records forms g-1055, fee schedule g-28, notice of entry of appearance as attorney or accredited representative n-565, application for replacement naturalization/citizenship document other materials citizenship resource center: check for test updates citizenship resource center: study for the test citizenship resource center: the naturalization interview and test how to use the uscis policy manual website appendices appendix: history of acquiring citizenship under ina 320 for children of u.s. citizens who are members of the u.s. armed forces, u.s. government employees, or their spouses before october 29, 2019, uscis considered children of members of the u.s. armed forces or u.s. government employees, who were stationed outside of the united states, to meet the requirement of “is residing in” the united states for the purpose of acquiring citizenship under ina 320 . [1] this interpretation was consistent with the definition of “residence” for purposes of naturalization under ina 316 . [2] based on this treatment of u.s. government employees and their children in the context of naturalization under ina 316, uscis determined that “residing in the united states” for purposes of acquisition of citizenship under ina 320 should likewise be interpreted to include children of u.s. military and government employees stationed outside of the united states who were residing with their parents. [3] this interpretation, however, was inconsistent with other provisions of the immigration and nationality act (ina), including the definition of “residence” at ina 101(a)(33) and language in ina 322(a) and ina 322(d) , which suggested that the citizenship of military children residing outside of the united states should be considered under that provision rather than under ina 320. effective october 29, 2019, uscis amended its policy guidance to address these concerns, and determined that children of members of the u.s. armed forces or u.s. government employees stationed outside of the united states would not be eligible for citizenship acquisition under ina 320. [4] on march 26, 2020, the citizenship for children of military members and civil servants act was enacted, [5] amending ina 320, so that a child residing with his or her u.s. citizen parent, who is stationed outside of the united states as a member of the u.s. armed forces or a u.s. government employee, or is residing in marital union with a member of the u.s. armed forces or a u.s. government employee who is stationed outside of the united states, acquires citizenship under ina 320 if all requirements of ina 320(c) and ina 320(a)(1)-(2) are met. in line with the statute, uscis rescinds its previous guidance, clarifying that these children are eligible to acquire citizenship under ina 320 if all other requirements under ina 320 are met. the amendment to ina 320 applies to children who were under the age of 18 on march 26, 2020. footnotes [^ 1] even though the child of a member of the u.s. armed forces or u.s. government employee stationed outside of the united states may be eligible to apply for a certificate of citizenship under ina 322 since he or she resides outside of the united states, uscis interpreted the child to meet residency requirements under ina 320 as well, which formerly required the child to be residing in the united states with his or her parent to acquire citizenship. [^ 2] for example, u.s. government employees, including members of the u.s. armed forces, are eligible to apply for an exception to the continuous residence requirement for naturalization under ina 316 as long as their residency outside of the united states was on behalf of the u.s. government. see ina 316(b) . see ina 316(a) . see part d, general naturalization requirements, chapter 3, continuous residence [ 12 uscis-pm d.3 ]. [^ 3] see policy manual technical update, child citizenship act and children of u.s. government employees residing abroad (july 20, 2015); and acquisition of citizenship by children of u.s. military and government employees stationed abroad under section 320 of the immigration and nationality act (ina), no. 103, issued may 6, 2004. [^ 4] see uscis policy alert, defining “residence” in statutory provisions related to citizenship [pa-2019-05] . this policy alert has been superseded by policy manual updates to reflect changes made under pub. l. 116-133 (pdf) . [^ 5] see pub. l. 116-133 (pdf) (march 26, 2020). updates policy alert - recognizing male and female sexes in uscis benefit requests review and document issuance april 02, 2025 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is updating policy guidance in the uscis policy manual to clarify that uscis recognizes the two biological sexes, male or female, for purposes of reviewing benefit requests and uscis-issued documents. read more affected sections 1 uscis-pm e.5 - chapter 5 - verification of identifying information 11 uscis-pm a.2 - chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents 12 uscis-pm g.2 - chapter 2 - marriage and marital union for naturalization 12 uscis-pm h.2 - chapter 2 - definition of child and residence for citizenship and naturalization 12 uscis-pm k.2 - chapter 2 - certificate of citizenship 12 uscis-pm k.3 - chapter 3 - certificate of naturalization 12 uscis-pm k.4 - chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document technical update - replacing the term noncitizen february 26, 2025 this technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the policy manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in ina 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the united states”], and makes other technical and conforming changes. affected sections 1 uscis-pm - volume 1 - general policies and procedures 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 3 uscis-pm - volume 3 - humanitarian protection and parole 4 uscis-pm - volume 4 - refugees and asylees 5 uscis-pm - volume 5 - adoptions 6 uscis-pm - volume 6 - immigrants 7 uscis-pm - volume 7 - adjustment of status 8 uscis-pm - volume 8 - admissibility 9 uscis-pm - volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief 10 uscis-pm - volume 10 - employment authorization 11 uscis-pm - volume 11 - travel and identity documents 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization policy alert - determining a benefit requestor’s legal name july 12, 2024 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is updating policy guidance in the uscis policy manual to address how officers determine a benefit requestor’s legal name. read more affected sections 1 uscis-pm e.5 - chapter 5 - verification of identifying information 11 uscis-pm a.2 - chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents 12 uscis-pm k.3 - chapter 3 - certificate of naturalization 12 uscis-pm k.4 - chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document policy alert - selecting gender on uscis forms march 31, 2023 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is revising policy guidance in the uscis policy manual to clarify that benefit requestors may select their gender on uscis forms (or change a prior gender selection) without the need to provide supporting documentation. documents issued by uscis as a result of the benefit adjudication will reflect the gender selected by the benefit requestor. read more affected sections 1 uscis-pm e.5 - chapter 5 - verification of identifying information 11 uscis-pm a.2 - chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents 12 uscis-pm k.2 - chapter 2 - certificate of citizenship 12 uscis-pm k.3 - chapter 3 - certificate of naturalization 12 uscis-pm k.4 - chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document technical update - replacing the term “alien” may 11, 2021 this technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the policy manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in ina 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the united states”]. affected sections 1 uscis-pm - volume 1 - general policies and procedures 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 6 uscis-pm - volume 6 - immigrants 7 uscis-pm - volume 7 - adjustment of status 8 uscis-pm - volume 8 - admissibility 9 uscis-pm - volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief 10 uscis-pm - volume 10 - employment authorization 11 uscis-pm - volume 11 - travel and identity documents 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization technical update - moving the adjudicator’s field manual content into the uscis policy manual may 21, 2020 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is updating and incorporating relevant adjudicator’s field manual (afm) content into the uscis policy manual. as that process is ongoing, uscis has moved any remaining afm content to its corresponding uscis policy manual part, in pdf format, until relevant afm content has been properly incorporated into the uscis policy manual. to the extent that a provision in the uscis policy manual conflicts with remaining afm content or policy memoranda, the updated information in the uscis policy manual prevails. to find remaining afm content, see the crosswalk between the afm and the policy manual. affected sections 1 uscis-pm - volume 1 - general policies and procedures 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 3 uscis-pm - volume 3 - humanitarian protection and parole 4 uscis-pm - volume 4 - refugees and asylees 5 uscis-pm - volume 5 - adoptions 6 uscis-pm - volume 6 - immigrants 7 uscis-pm - volume 7 - adjustment of status 8 uscis-pm - volume 8 - admissibility 9 uscis-pm - volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief 11 uscis-pm - volume 11 - travel and identity documents 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization technical update - replacing the term “foreign national” october 08, 2019 this technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the policy manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in ina 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the united states”]. affected sections 1 uscis-pm - volume 1 - general policies and procedures 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 6 uscis-pm - volume 6 - immigrants 7 uscis-pm - volume 7 - adjustment of status 8 uscis-pm - volume 8 - admissibility 9 uscis-pm - volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief 10 uscis-pm - volume 10 - employment authorization 11 uscis-pm - volume 11 - travel and identity documents 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization policy alert - changes to dates of birth and names on certificates of citizenship june 17, 2014 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is issuing policy guidance relating to changes of dates of birth and names per court orders. read more affected sections 12 uscis-pm k.2 - chapter 2 - certificate of citizenship 12 uscis-pm k.4 - chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document policy alert - comprehensive citizenship and naturalization policy guidance january 07, 2013 uscis is issuing updated and comprehensive citizenship and naturalization policy guidance in the new uscis policy manual. read more affected sections 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization 0 page sub tree links current as of august 31, 2026 previous next was this page helpful? yes no this page was not helpful because the content: select a reason has too little information has too much information is confusing is out of date other how can the content be improved? 0 / 2000 to protect your privacy, please do not include any personal information in your feedback. review our privacy policy . return to top topics forms newsroom citizenship green card laws tools contact uscis agency description uscis.gov an official website of the u.s. department of homeland security important links about uscis accessibility budget and performance dhs components freedom of information act no fear act data privacy and legal disclaimers site map office of the inspector general the white house usa.gov looking for u.s. government information and services? visit usa.gov