chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents | uscis skip to main content an official website of the united states government here's how you know official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock ( a locked padlock ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. español sign in sign in create account menu sign in create account topics topics family family of green card holders (permanent residents) family of refugees and asylees family of u.s. citizens adoption before you start immigration through adoption military citizenship for military family members naturalization through military service humanitarian humanitarian parole refugees and asylum temporary protected status visit the u.s. change my nonimmigrant status extend your stay working in the united states permanent workers temporary (nonimmigrant) workers e-verify i-9 central avoid scams common scams find legal services report immigration scams careers at uscis career opportunities special hiring programs forms forms most accessed forms i-9, employment eligibility verification i-485, application to register permanent residence or adjust status i-765, application for employment authorization i-90, application to replace permanent resident card (green card) n-400, application for naturalization family based forms i-129f, petition for alien fiancé(e) i-130, petition for alien relative i-360, petition for amerasian, widow(er), or special immigrant i-600, petition to classify orphan as an immediate relative i-751, petition to remove conditions on residence all forms file online employment based forms i-129, petition for a nonimmigrant worker i-140, immigrant petition for alien workers i-526, immigrant petition by standalone investor i-539, application to extend/change nonimmigrant status humanitarian based forms i-589, application for asylum and for withholding of removal i-730, refugee/asylee relative petition i-821, application for temporary protected status newsroom newsroom all news alerts fact sheets news releases media contacts multimedia gallery social media directory speeches, statements, testimony citizenship citizenship learners apply for naturalization learn about citizenship educators educational products for educators resources for educational programs teacher training sessions organizations outreach tools naturalization-related data and statistics grants green card green card green card processes and procedures adjustment of status after we grant your green card employment authorization document visa availability and priority dates green card eligibility categories how to apply for a green card replace your green card while your green card application is pending with uscis laws laws legislation immigration and nationality act class action, settlement notices and agreements unlawful presence and inadmissibility policy manual regulations administrative appeals tools tools alien registration requirement self-help tools check case processing times case status online change of address e-request online account and technical support website resources archive a-z index website policies additional resources explore my options immigration and citizenship data uscis tools and resources contact us policy manual contents updates ina 8 cfr feedback book outline for policy manual policy manual search updates table of contents volume 1 - general policies and procedures volume 2 - nonimmigrants volume 3 - humanitarian protection and parole volume 4 - refugees and asylees volume 5 - adoptions volume 6 - immigrants volume 7 - adjustment of status volume 8 - admissibility volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief volume 10 - employment authorization volume 11 - travel and identity documents part a - secure identity documents policies and procedures chapter 1 - purpose and background chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents chapter 3 - reissuance of secure identity documents part b - permanent resident cards part c - reentry permits part d - refugee travel documents part e - advance parole documents part f - arrival-departure records volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization breadcrumb home policy manual volume 11 - travel and identity documents part a - secure identity documents policies and procedures chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents content navigation tabs guidance resources ( 7 ) appendices ( 0 ) updates ( 9 ) a. personal information used on secure identity documents ​uscis issues a variety of secure identity documents that establish identity and immigration status in the united states. personal information included on uscis-issued secure identity documents includes, but is not limited to, a benefit requestor’s biometrics, full legal name, date and country of birth, sex, and a-number. 1. biometrics uscis has general authority to require and collect biometrics from any applicant, petitioner, sponsor, derivative, dependent, beneficiary, or requestor filing for any immigration, citizenship, and naturalization benefit. [1] if the benefit request filed requires biometrics, and the requestor is in the united states, uscis schedules a biometric services appointment at a local application support center (asc). [2] if the benefit requestor is outside of the united states, biometrics are captured by a uscis international office, a u.s. embassy or consulate, or a u.s. military facility. the biometrics collected from the benefit requestor allow uscis to verify identity and conduct national security and criminal history background checks. uscis also uses the benefit requestor’s biometric information for the initial issuance or replacement of a secure identity document. 2. full legal name all uscis-issued secure identity documents contain the benefit requestor’s full legal name. [3] documents uscis issues do not include nicknames. they do not contain initials, unless an initial appears on the official birth certificate, or the requestors legally changed their name to include an initial. uscis does not suspend the adjudication of a benefit request pending a court determination of a name change or other efforts by the requestor to establish a new legal name. uscis creates secure identity documents using the legal name in place when the benefit request is decided. if the applicant’s name changes after filing, uscis only issues the resulting identity document, if any, in the new name if the applicant provides supporting documentation of the name change before uscis makes a decision on the benefit. [4] name changes if requestors change their name after uscis issues the secure identity document, the requestor may file an application, with the appropriate fee, [5] to request uscis re-issue the secure identity document with the new name. [6] the requestor must provide sufficient evidence of the name change. uscis does not have legal authority to change a person’s name. requestors who changed their name must submit evidence that they completed any name change procedure according to the relevant u.s. state or foreign law. [7] the name change may or may not be recorded on the birth certificate, marriage certificate, or other vital document record. [8] 3. date of birth in general, the official date of birth is the date recorded on the requestor’s birth certificate. uscis recognizes dates of birth based on the gregorian calendar in the following order: month, day, and year. some foreign countries issue documents with the date of birth in a different order. [9] most translations should have the date in the order of the month, day, and year. however, officers should verify the order of a translated date before issuing documents to avoid discrepancies. if there is a discrepancy between a translated birth certificate and other government-issued documentation, the requestor must provide compelling evidence that the date of birth on the birth certificate is incorrect or miscalculated. for naturalization certificates, uscis cannot change a recorded date of birth, except to correct a uscis clerical error. [10] 4. sex uscis issues certain documents indicating the benefit requestor’s sex. [11] uscis does not leave the benefit requestor’s sex blank on such documents. b. delivery of secure identity documents uscis mails secure identity documents through the u.s. postal service (usps) to the address provided on a benefit request, unless the requestor requested that uscis send any secure identity document to the u.s. business address of the attorney of record or accredited representative. [12] in general, uscis only sends secure identity documents to u.s. addresses. the requestor may, however, request that any secure identity document be sent to a designated military or diplomatic address for pickup in a foreign country, if permitted. [13] for example, certain travel documents (such as reentry permits and refugee travel documents) may be sent to a u.s. embassy or consulate or uscis international office for the requestor to pick up, if this request is made when the requestor files the benefit application. [14] c. tracking delivery benefit requestors may track the delivery status of their secure identity document by signing up for a case status online account to obtain a tracking number. with a tracking number, requestors may also register for informed delivery through usps to get previews of mail in transit. [15] d. making address changes aliens must report any change of address within 10 days of moving within the united states or its territories. [16] if a mailing address changes after a benefit request is filed, the requestor should update it online with uscis and usps as soon as possible to ensure he or she receives any secure identity documents uscis sends in the mail. if more than one application or petition is pending, the requestor should ensure that uscis updates the address on all pending benefit requests. requestors should use the usps look up a zip code tool to ensure they are providing a complete address using the standard abbreviations and formatting recognized by usps. footnotes [^ 1] see 8 cfr 103.2(b)(9) . see 8 cfr 103.16 . [^ 2] for more information, see preparing for your biometric services appointment . [^ 3] see 8 cfr 320.3(b)(1)(viii)-(ix) , 8 cfr 322.3(b)(1)(xiii) and 8 cfr 338.1(b) . see 6 cfr 37.3 for the full legal name description in the real id act, pub. l. 109-13 (pdf) (may 11, 2005). uscis uses the name provided in the benefit request, or otherwise submitted in connection with the request while the request is pending, so long as uscis can verify the name. for more information on what uscis considers a legal name for purposes of verifying identifying information as part of the adjudication of the benefit request, see volume 1, general policies and procedures, part e, adjudications, chapter 5, verification of identifying information, section a, full legal name [ 1 uscis-pm e.1(a) ]. certain uscis electronic systems have character limitations which could result in a shortened name (if the name is too long) or a name without hyphens on uscis-produced secure documents. [^ 4] for more information, see the updating or correcting your documents webpage. [^ 5] see fee schedule ( form g-1055 ). [^ 6] see chapter 3, reissuance of secure identity documents [ 11 uscis-pm a.3 ]. [^ 7] there may be instances in which evidence of a name change is unobtainable because of country conditions or personal circumstances. in some situations, uscis permits such requestors to submit secondary evidence or affidavits to establish their identity. any affidavit should explain the reasons primary evidence is unavailable. for more information on identity documents that cannot be obtained in particular countries and during specific time periods, see the u.s. department of state’s u.s. visa: reciprocity and civil documents by country webpage. requestors of certain humanitarian benefits may be able to establish with testimony alone that they completed any name change procedure according to relevant law. [^ 8] see volume 1, general policies and procedures, part e, adjudications, chapter 5, verification of identifying information, section a, full legal name [ 1 uscis-pm e.5(a) ]. [^ 9] most western countries follow the gregorian calendar. other countries follow different calendars including the hebrew (lunisolar calendar); islamic (lunar calendar); and julian (solar calendar). the calendars differ on days, months, and years. [^ 10] see 8 cfr 338.5 . uscis may, however, change the date of birth on a certificate of citizenship for a person who has a u.s. court order or similar state vital record changing the date of birth. see volume 12, citizenship naturalization, part k, certificates of citizenship and naturalization, chapter 4, application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document [ 12 uscis-pm k.4 ]. [^ 11] for more information, see volume 1, general policies and procedures, part e, adjudications, chapter 5, verification of identifying information, section b, personal information, subsection 2, sex [ 1 uscis-pm e.5(b)(2) ]. [^ 12] see 8 cfr 103.2(b)(19)(iii) . a benefit requestor may also request to change, through written notice to uscis, that uscis mail the secure identity document to him or her instead of the attorney of record or legal representative. [^ 13] for more information regarding mailing secure identity documents overseas, see travel documents and emergency travel . [^ 14] in general, if a requestor applies for advance parole while in the united states, and departs the united states before the advance parole document is issued, the requestor may be found inadmissible to the united states upon return, or even if admitted, may be found to have abandoned his or her application. there is no process for a requestor outside the united states traveling on a valid advance parole document or combo card (a card that combines an employment authorization document (ead) and advance parole document) to apply for a replacement of a lost or stolen advance parole document to enable him or her to return the united states. in these cases, the requestor should contact the closest uscis international office or u.s. embassy or consulate. [^ 15] for more information on how to track the delivery of secure identity documents, see how to track delivery of your notice or secure identity document (or card) . [^ 16] see ina 265 . see how to change your address . resources legal authorities no legal authorities available at this time. forms g-1055, fee schedule i-131, application for travel documents, parole documents, and arrival/departure records i-131a, application for travel document (carrier documentation) i-765, application for employment authorization i-912, request for fee waiver n-565, application for replacement naturalization/citizenship document other materials how to use the uscis policy manual website appendices no appendices available at this time. updates policy alert - recognizing male and female sexes in uscis benefit requests review and document issuance april 02, 2025 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is updating policy guidance in the uscis policy manual to clarify that uscis recognizes the two biological sexes, male or female, for purposes of reviewing benefit requests and uscis-issued documents. read more affected sections 1 uscis-pm e.5 - chapter 5 - verification of identifying information 11 uscis-pm a.2 - chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents 12 uscis-pm g.2 - chapter 2 - marriage and marital union for naturalization 12 uscis-pm h.2 - chapter 2 - definition of child and residence for citizenship and naturalization 12 uscis-pm k.2 - chapter 2 - certificate of citizenship 12 uscis-pm k.3 - chapter 3 - certificate of naturalization 12 uscis-pm k.4 - chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document technical update - replacing the term noncitizen february 26, 2025 this technical update replaces all instances of the term “noncitizen” with “alien” or other appropriate terms throughout the policy manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in ina 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the united states”], and makes other technical and conforming changes. affected sections 1 uscis-pm - volume 1 - general policies and procedures 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 3 uscis-pm - volume 3 - humanitarian protection and parole 4 uscis-pm - volume 4 - refugees and asylees 5 uscis-pm - volume 5 - adoptions 6 uscis-pm - volume 6 - immigrants 7 uscis-pm - volume 7 - adjustment of status 8 uscis-pm - volume 8 - admissibility 9 uscis-pm - volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief 10 uscis-pm - volume 10 - employment authorization 11 uscis-pm - volume 11 - travel and identity documents 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization policy alert - determining a benefit requestor’s legal name july 12, 2024 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is updating policy guidance in the uscis policy manual to address how officers determine a benefit requestor’s legal name. read more affected sections 1 uscis-pm e.5 - chapter 5 - verification of identifying information 11 uscis-pm a.2 - chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents 12 uscis-pm k.3 - chapter 3 - certificate of naturalization 12 uscis-pm k.4 - chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document policy alert - selecting gender on uscis forms march 31, 2023 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is revising policy guidance in the uscis policy manual to clarify that benefit requestors may select their gender on uscis forms (or change a prior gender selection) without the need to provide supporting documentation. documents issued by uscis as a result of the benefit adjudication will reflect the gender selected by the benefit requestor. read more affected sections 1 uscis-pm e.5 - chapter 5 - verification of identifying information 11 uscis-pm a.2 - chapter 2 - uscis-issued secure identity documents 12 uscis-pm k.2 - chapter 2 - certificate of citizenship 12 uscis-pm k.3 - chapter 3 - certificate of naturalization 12 uscis-pm k.4 - chapter 4 - application for replacement of naturalization/citizenship document technical update - replacing the term “alien” may 11, 2021 this technical update replaces all instances of the term “alien” with “noncitizen” or other appropriate terms throughout the policy manual where possible, as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in ina 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the united states”]. affected sections 1 uscis-pm - volume 1 - general policies and procedures 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 6 uscis-pm - volume 6 - immigrants 7 uscis-pm - volume 7 - adjustment of status 8 uscis-pm - volume 8 - admissibility 9 uscis-pm - volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief 10 uscis-pm - volume 10 - employment authorization 11 uscis-pm - volume 11 - travel and identity documents 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization policy alert - fee schedule and changes to certain other immigration benefit request requirements final rule september 02, 2020 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is revising its policy guidance in the uscis policy manual to align with the fee schedule and changes to certain other immigration benefit request requirements final rule, published in the federal register on august 3, 2020. this guidance becomes effective october 2, 2020. for information regarding implementation, see appendix: 2020 fee rule litigation summary . read more affected sections 1 uscis-pm a - part a - public services 1 uscis-pm b - part b - submission of benefit requests 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 7 uscis-pm a - part a - adjustment of status policies and procedures 7 uscis-pm f - part f - special immigrant-based adjustment 7 uscis-pm m - part m - asylee adjustment 11 uscis-pm a - part a - secure identity documents policies and procedures technical update - moving the adjudicator’s field manual content into the uscis policy manual may 21, 2020 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is updating and incorporating relevant adjudicator’s field manual (afm) content into the uscis policy manual. as that process is ongoing, uscis has moved any remaining afm content to its corresponding uscis policy manual part, in pdf format, until relevant afm content has been properly incorporated into the uscis policy manual. to the extent that a provision in the uscis policy manual conflicts with remaining afm content or policy memoranda, the updated information in the uscis policy manual prevails. to find remaining afm content, see the crosswalk between the afm and the policy manual. affected sections 1 uscis-pm - volume 1 - general policies and procedures 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 3 uscis-pm - volume 3 - humanitarian protection and parole 4 uscis-pm - volume 4 - refugees and asylees 5 uscis-pm - volume 5 - adoptions 6 uscis-pm - volume 6 - immigrants 7 uscis-pm - volume 7 - adjustment of status 8 uscis-pm - volume 8 - admissibility 9 uscis-pm - volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief 11 uscis-pm - volume 11 - travel and identity documents 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization technical update - replacing the term “foreign national” october 08, 2019 this technical update replaces all instances of the term “foreign national” with “alien” throughout the policy manual as used to refer to a person who meets the definition provided in ina 101(a)(3) [“any person not a citizen or national of the united states”]. affected sections 1 uscis-pm - volume 1 - general policies and procedures 2 uscis-pm - volume 2 - nonimmigrants 6 uscis-pm - volume 6 - immigrants 7 uscis-pm - volume 7 - adjustment of status 8 uscis-pm - volume 8 - admissibility 9 uscis-pm - volume 9 - waivers and other forms of relief 10 uscis-pm - volume 10 - employment authorization 11 uscis-pm - volume 11 - travel and identity documents 12 uscis-pm - volume 12 - citizenship and naturalization policy alert - policies and procedures for secure identity documents january 16, 2019 u.s. citizenship and immigration services (uscis) is issuing policy guidance in the uscis policy manual to address the general policies and procedures related to secure documents. read more affected sections 11 uscis-pm a - part a - secure identity documents policies and procedures 0 page sub tree links current as of august 31, 2026 previous next was this page helpful? yes no this page was not helpful because the content: select a reason has too little information has too much information is confusing is out of date other how can the content be improved? 0 / 2000 to protect your privacy, please do not include any personal information in your feedback. review our privacy policy . return to top topics forms newsroom citizenship green card laws tools contact uscis agency description uscis.gov an official website of the u.s. department of homeland security important links about uscis accessibility budget and performance dhs components freedom of information act no fear act data privacy and legal disclaimers site map office of the inspector general the white house usa.gov looking for u.s. government information and services? visit usa.gov