application for employment authorization | uscis skip to main content an official website of the united states government here's how you know official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states. secure .gov websites use https a lock ( a locked padlock ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. español sign in sign in create account menu sign in create account topics topics family family of green card holders (permanent residents) family of refugees and asylees family of u.s. citizens adoption before you start immigration through adoption military citizenship for military family members naturalization through military service humanitarian humanitarian parole refugees and asylum temporary protected status visit the u.s. change my nonimmigrant status extend your stay working in the united states permanent workers temporary (nonimmigrant) workers e-verify i-9 central avoid scams common scams find legal services report immigration scams careers at uscis career opportunities special hiring programs forms forms most accessed forms i-9, employment eligibility verification i-485, application to register permanent residence or adjust status i-765, application for employment authorization i-90, application to replace permanent resident card (green card) n-400, application for naturalization family based forms i-129f, petition for alien fiancé(e) i-130, petition for alien relative i-360, petition for amerasian, widow(er), or special immigrant i-600, petition to classify orphan as an immediate relative i-751, petition to remove conditions on residence all forms file online employment based forms i-129, petition for a nonimmigrant worker i-140, immigrant petition for alien workers i-526, immigrant petition by standalone investor i-539, application to extend/change nonimmigrant status humanitarian based forms i-589, application for asylum and for withholding of removal i-730, refugee/asylee relative petition i-821, application for temporary protected status newsroom newsroom all news alerts fact sheets news releases media contacts multimedia gallery social media directory speeches, statements, testimony citizenship citizenship learners apply for naturalization learn about citizenship educators educational products for educators resources for educational programs teacher training sessions organizations outreach tools naturalization-related data and statistics grants green card green card green card processes and procedures adjustment of status after we grant your green card employment authorization document visa availability and priority dates green card eligibility categories how to apply for a green card replace your green card while your green card application is pending with uscis laws laws legislation immigration and nationality act class action, settlement notices and agreements unlawful presence and inadmissibility policy manual regulations administrative appeals tools tools alien registration requirement self-help tools check case processing times case status online change of address e-request online account and technical support website resources archive a-z index website policies additional resources explore my options immigration and citizenship data uscis tools and resources contact us main navigation forms all forms explore my options filing guidance filing fees forms updates department of state (ds) forms and other non-uscis forms breadcrumb home forms application for employment authorization i-765, application for employment authorization alert type info alert: on sept. 15, 2026, we will publish a revised edition of form i-765, application for employment authorization (edition date: 09/15/26). the form has been revised to align with the recently published establishing a fixed time period of admission and an extension of stay procedure for nonimmigrant academic students, exchange visitors, and representatives of foreign information media final rule. there is no grace period for the revised edition of form i-765 because the revised edition is necessary for uscis to apply the final rule. because there will be no grace period , we are providing a preview version of the 09/15/26 edition of form i-765 and its instructions. please note that uscis will: accept the 08/21/25 edition of form i-765 if it is postmarked or electronically submitted before sept. 15, 2026; reject the 08/21/25 edition of form i-765 if it is postmarked or electronically submitted on or after sept. 15, 2026; and only accept the 09/15/26 edition of form i-765 if it is postmarked or electronically submitted on or after sept. 15, 2026. see the special instructions section below to view the form preview version. alert type info alert : litigation update on ms. l. v. ice and applicability of certain hr-1 fees uscis is pausing the collection of certain fees required by pub. l. 119-21 (“hr-1”) from ms. l. settlement class members and their qualifying additional family members (qafms) as of feb. 5, 2026, pursuant to a decision issued in ms. l. v. ice , 18-cv-00428 (s.d. cal.). the department does not concur with this decision and is evaluating its options. if you are a ms. l. settlement class member or qafm who received a notice informing you that you are required to pay one of the below-listed hr-1 fees, and you did not already make a payment prior to feb. 5, 2026, the payment notice is rescinded and you are not required to pay the hr-1 fee. uscis will notify you if any further information is necessary to continue processing your application. if you are a ms. l. settlement class member or qafm, you are not required to pay the following hr-1 fees as of feb. 5, 2026: immigration parole fee (8 u.s.c 1804) parolee initial employment authorization document (ead) fee (8 u.s.c 1803(b)) (form i-765 based on a category (c)(11) initial ead) parolee renewal ead fee (8 u.s.c 1809) (form i-765 based on a category (c)(11) renewal ead, or form i-131 when requesting re-parole under part 1, category 10.g and selecting the ead checkbox in part 9) asylum application fee (8 u.s.c 1802) annual asylum fee (8 u.s.c. 1808) please see www.together.gov and the ms. l. settlement agreement for information on who may qualify as a ms. l. settlement class member or qafm. individuals must register on together.gov or juntos.gov and be confirmed by the family reunification task force research committee to qualify as ms. l. settlement class members. note for asylum applicants: if you are applying for asylum with uscis as a ms. l. settlement class member or qafm, you must write “ms. l settlement class member” or “ms. l. settlement qafm” on the top of the first page of your paper form i-589 and mail your paper application according to the form i-589 filing instructions in order for uscis to process your application without the hr-1 asylum application fee. do not file your form i-589 online. if you file your form i-589 online, we may reject it. see applying for asylum with uscis for ms. l. settlement class members for more information. alert type info alert: please remember that photos submitted to uscis must be unmounted and unretouched. unretouched means the photos must not be edited or digitally enhanced. the submission of any mounted or retouched images will delay the processing of your application and may prompt uscis to require that you appear at an applicant support center to verify your identity. certain aliens who are in the united states may file form i-765, application for employment authorization, to request an employment authorization document (ead). other aliens whose immigration status authorizes them to work in the united states without restrictions may also use form i-765 to apply for an ead that shows such authorization. if you have not already started the ead application process, you can begin here by creating a uscis account online and filing form-i-765 . we will mail your work permit to the address you provided in your application if your application is approved. if necessary, you can file a paper application for form i-765 instead. after we approve a form i-765, your ead card should be produced within 2 weeks. we will mail your ead card via u.s. postal service (usps) priority mail. please ensure you have the correct mailing address on file with uscis. if your mailing address changes after you file your application, you must update your address with uscis and usps as soon as possible. if you don’t update your address promptly, your case could be delayed, your document(s) could get lost, and you may need to reapply and pay the fee again. the timeframe in which you will receive your ead card may vary, depending on usps delivery times. please allow a total of 30 days from approval before inquiring with uscis. we encourage you to use case status online to find your usps tracking number for ead card delivery. if you have not received your ead card within this time frame, please visit e-request - self service tools for instructions on how to submit an inquiry. file online form details forms and document downloads form i-765 (pdf, 456.47 kb) instructions for form i-765 (pdf, 566.8 kb) form i-765 worksheet (pdf, 254.2 kb) edition date 08/21/25 . you can find the edition date at the bottom of the page on the form and instructions. dates are listed in mm/dd/yy format. if you complete and print this form to mail it, make sure that the form edition date and page numbers are visible at the bottom of all pages and that all pages are from the same form edition. if any of the form’s pages are missing or are from a different form edition, we may reject your form. if you need help downloading and printing forms, read our instructions . where to file the filing address depends on your reason for applying and the eligibility category you entered in question 27. please check the filing locations for form i-765 for a list of addresses. if you are a replacing a card that has incorrect information, please see the special instructions provided below. when to file we generally recommend you file a form i-765 to request a renewal employment authorization document (ead) up to 180 days before your current ead expires. we generally do not backdate or postdate a renewal ead to the end of your current ead’s validity period. please refer to the form i-765 instructions for information on other specific categories. to renew your employment authorization document, file form i-765 at least 90 days before the expiration. filing category when to file (a)(20) you may file form i-765 at the same time as form 918, supplement a, petition for qualifying family member of u-1 recipient, or you may file form i-765 later. (c)(3)(a) file form i-765 up to 90 days before being enrolled for one full academic year, provided that the period of employment will not start before you have completed one full academic year. (c)(3)(b) file form i-765 up to 90 days before, but no later than 60 days after, your program end date. you must file your form i-765 within 30 days of the date that your dso enters the recommendation for opt into your sevis record. (c)(3)(c) file form i-765 up to 90 days before the expiration of your current opt, if you are requesting a 24-month stem extension. (c)(6) file form i-765 with a copy of the form i-20 endorsed by the dso certifying eligibility for employment together with form i-539, application to change/extend nonimmigrant status, if applicable, completed according to the form i-539 instructions. we must receive the completed forms before, but not more than 90 days before, your program end date. (c)(8) you must wait 150 days before you can apply for an ead, and an additional 30 days before we can issue you an ead, for a total of 180 days starting from when you filed your i-589 asylum application. the number of days a completed asylum application is considered pending does not include any delays requested or caused by you while your application is pending with the uscis asylum office or with an eoir immigration judge. (see 8 cfr 208.7) this period during which your asylum application is pending before we may grant you an ead is called the “180-day asylum ead clock.” we may reject your form i-765 if you file it before the 150-day waiting period has elapsed. further details can be found in the form i-765 instructions. if you have received a recommended approval notice from the uscis asylum office recommending a grant of asylum, you do not need to wait 150 days and may apply for an ead immediately upon receipt of this notice. provide a copy of your notice as evidence of your recommended approval with your form i-765. (c)(9) file form i-765 together with form i-485, application to register permanent residence or adjust status, or if filing separately, submit a copy of your i-485 receipt notice or other evidence to show that your form i-485 is pending. (c)(10) if you are eligible to apply for nacara 203 relief with uscis, you may file form i-765 together with your form i-881, application for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal (under section 203 of public law 105-100 (nacara)). (c)(11) file form i-765 with sufficient evidence to show that your parole status is current and has not expired or is about to expire. (c)(26) you may file form i-765 at the same time as your form i-539 and your h1-b spouse’s form i-129, petition for a nonimmigrant worker. (c)(36) you may file your form i-765 with your spouse’s or parent’s application under (c)(35). (c)(37) you may file form i-765 up to 180 days before your ead expires. you do not need to file form i-955 to reapply for commonwealth of the northern mariana islands (cnmi) long-term resident status when you renew your ead. you must continue to meet all eligibility requirements for the underlying cnmi long-term resident status to renew your ead. filing fee you can find the filing fee for form i-765 by visiting our fee schedule page. checklist of required initial evidence (for informational purposes only) view the checklist of required initial evidence. form filing tips filing tips: review our tips for filing forms by mail page for information on how to ensure we will accept your form. don’t forget to sign your form. we will reject any unsigned form. special instructions on sept. 15, 2026, we will publish a revised edition of form i-765, application for employment authorization (edition date: 09/15/26). the form has been revised to align with the recently published establishing a fixed time period of admission and an extension of stay procedure for nonimmigrant academic students, exchange visitors, and representatives of foreign information media final rule. there is no grace period for the revised edition of form i-765 because the revised edition is necessary for uscis to apply the final rule. because there will be no grace period , we are providing a preview version of the 09/15/26 edition of form i-765 and its instructions. please note that uscis will: accept the 08/21/25 edition of form i-765 if it is postmarked or electronically submitted before sept. 15, 2026; reject the 08/21/25 edition of form i-765 if it is postmarked or electronically submitted on or after sept. 15, 2026; and only accept the 09/15/26 edition of form i-765 if it is postmarked or electronically submitted on or after sept. 15, 2026. see a preview version of the new form i-765 , form i-765ws , and instructions . e-notification: if you want to receive an email and/or a text message that we have accepted your form at a uscis lockbox, complete form g-1145, e-notification of application/petition acceptance , and clip it to the first page of your form. afghan parolee if you are an afghan national paroled into the united states and you are applying for employment authorization, you will need a social security number (ssn) to work in the united states. your ssn allows employers to report your earnings to the u.s. government. you must make an appointment to visit a social security administration office in person to apply for your ssn after you receive your employment authorization document (form i-766). replacing a card that has incorrect information if the card we issued to you contains incorrect information that is not due to our error, you must use the filing locations for form i-765 associated with your eligibility category to submit your form and filing fee. if the card we issued to you contains incorrect information that is due to our error, you do not need to file a new form i-765 and filing fee. please check the filing locations for form i-765 under the heading “replacement for card error” for instructions. replacing a non-delivered card if you did not receive your card, we may reissue the card if the original document was not delivered to you after the first or subsequent delivery attempts. you generally do not have to pay a new fee if the reason you did not receive your document is due to our error or united states postal service (usps) error. see our immigration documents and how to correct, update, or replace them page under the heading “replacing your non-delivered document” for additional information. liberian refugee immigration fairness (lrif) applicants: if you are filing form i-765 as an adjustment of status applicant based on lrif, you should write “(c)(9)” as your eligibility category in part 2, item number 27 on your form i-765. see our lrif page for more information on adjustment of status based on lrif. deferred action for childhood arrivals requestors: to be considered for daca, you must submit: form i-821d, consideration of deferred action for childhood arrivals; form i-765, application for employment authorization; form i-765 worksheet; and the correct fees. note: if you are a current daca recipient and only need to replace a valid employment authorization document (ead) because yours was lost, stolen, or damaged, file form i-765, application for employment authorization, and select box 1.b. submit the properly completed form i-765, evidence that you are a current daca recipient (such as your most recent daca approval notice), and the filing fee to the filing address for the location where you live. do not file form i-821d, consideration of deferred action for childhood arrivals, with this form i-765; if you submit form i-821d when you are filing to replace a lost, stolen, or damaged ead, we will deny your form i-821d and we will not refund the $85 filing fee for form i-821d. t applicants : if you are a principal t nonimmigrant applicant, you are authorized to work based on your status. after we approve the underlying application for t nonimmigrant status, we will issue you an employment authorization document (ead). this means you will not need to file form i-765. if you are a derivative family member residing inside the united states, you are also authorized to work based on your status. after we approve the underlying application for derivative t nonimmigrant status, we will not issue you an ead. you will need to file form i-765. if you live in the united states, you may receive deferred action and employment authorization if you have a pending bona fide application and meet certain discretionary standards. generally, you will only be eligible for these benefits associated with a bona fide determination if you file a bona fide application for t nonimmigrant status on or after aug. 28, 2024. we strongly encourage you to file form i-765 under category (c)(40) at the same time you file your application for t nonimmigrant status, to timely receive deferred action and employment authorization. if you do not file form i-765 concurrently, we will issue a notice instructing you how to file a form i-765 for employment authorization associated with a bona fide determination. u petitioners: if you are a principal u nonimmigrant petitioner, you are authorized to work based on your status. after we approve the underlying petition for u nonimmigrant status, we will issue you an employment authorization document (ead). this means you will not need to file form i-765. if you are a derivative family member residing inside the united states, you are also authorized to work based on your status. after we approve the underlying petition for derivative u nonimmigrant status, we will not issue you an ead. this means you will need to file form i-765. we can only issue eads for principals and derivatives after we approve the underlying u nonimmigrant status petition, regardless of when you file form i-765. if you live in the united states, you may receive employment authorization and deferred action if you have a pending bona fide petition and meet certain discretionary standards. we will issue a notice if you need to file a form i-765 for employment authorization associated with a bona fide determination. if the statutory cap is reached in a fiscal year and we use the waiting list process described at 8 cfr 214.14(d)(2), petitioners for u nonimmigrant status and derivatives in the united states can apply for employment authorization using form i-765 based on deferred action. we can only approve an application for employment authorization based on deferred action after dhs has issued deferred action in your case, regardless of when you file form i-765. asylum applicants: please refer to our asylum page for more information, including information about the effect of applicant-caused delays on your form i-765 adjudication. employment authorization based on a pending form i-589 after dismissal or termination of your removal proceedings by eoir if you then have an unexpired employment authorization document (ead) that was approved based on a pending form i-589 before eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings. your current ead will remain valid until its expiration date. before your ead expires, you may renew it by submitting: evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of form i-589 with uscis after eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as: the uscis receipt notice we mailed to you; your uscis asylum interview notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview); your form i-797c notice (application support center (asc) appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your form i-589); or other evidence you filed your form i-589 with uscis. we recommend that you also submit: proof you had a form i-589 pending with eoir at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your form i-589 receipt notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; and a copy of the eoir order of dismissal or termination. if uscis has granted you employment authorization under the (c)(8) filing category, the appropriate fee must accompany any renewal applications filed under category (c)(8). have a pending form i-765 to renew your (c)(8)-based ead, and you had a pending form i-589 with eoir before eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings. uscis may renew your ead, if you submit: evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of form i-589 with uscis after eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as: the uscis receipt notice we mailed to you; your uscis asylum interview notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview); your form i-797c notice (asc appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your form i-589); or other evidence you filed your form i-589 with uscis. we recommend that you also submit: proof you had a form i-589 pending with eoir at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your form i-589 receipt notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; and a copy of the eoir order of dismissal or termination. have never been granted employment authorization under the (c)(8) filing category and: you have not filed form i-765; you are eligible to file form i-765 for an initial (c)(8)-based ead; you had a pending form i-589 with eoir; and eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings. you may file form i-765 according to the instructions for requesting an ead based on a pending asylum application. you should submit: evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of form i-589 with uscis after eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as: the uscis receipt notice we mailed to you; your uscis asylum interview notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview); your form i-797c notice (asc appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your form i-589); or other evidence you filed your form i-589 with uscis. we recommend that you also submit: proof you had a form i-589 pending with eoir at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your form i-589 receipt notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; and a copy of the eoir order of dismissal or termination. are not yet eligible for an initial (c)(8)-based ead on the basis of the form i-589 that was pending with eoir before eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings. you will generally continue to accumulate time to meet the 180-day asylum ead clock requirements after you file your form i-589 with uscis. when you file form i-765, submit: evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of form i-589 with uscis after eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as: the uscis receipt notice we mailed to you; your uscis asylum interview notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview); or your form i-797c notice (asc appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your form i-589). we recommend that you also submit: proof that you had a form i-589 pending with eoir at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your form i-589 receipt notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; and a copy of the eoir order of dismissal or termination. submit your new paper form i-589 with your current address using the chart in the “where to file” section of the form i-589 page. already have a (c)(8)-based ead you need to renew because it will expire soon, and eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings. before your ead expires, you will need to renew it by submitting: evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of form i-589 with uscis after eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as: the uscis receipt notice we mailed to you; your uscis asylum interview notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview); your form i-797c notice (asc appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your form i-589); or other evidence you filed your form i-589 with uscis. we recommend that you also submit: proof that you had a form i-589 pending with eoir at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as a copy of your form i-589 stamped received by eoir or other available documentary evidence of filing; and a copy of the eoir order of dismissal or termination. the appropriate fee must accompany any renewal applications filed under category (c)(8). filed form i-765 based on (c)(8) eligibility, but we denied your form i-765 because eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings. you may reapply for an ead or apply to renew your ead by submitting form i-765 to uscis. you should include: evidence you filed an updated asylum application on a current version of form i-589 with uscis after eoir dismissed or terminated your removal proceedings, such as: the uscis receipt notice we mailed to you; your uscis asylum interview notice (scheduling, rescheduling, or canceling your asylum interview); your form i-797c notice (asc appointment notice for a biometrics appointment for your form i-589); or other evidence you filed your form i-589 with uscis. we recommend that you also submit: proof you had a form i-589 pending with eoir at the time of the dismissal or termination, such as your form i-589 receipt notice or other available documentary evidence of filing; and a copy of the eoir order of dismissal or termination. if uscis has granted you employment authorization under the (c)(8) category, the appropriate filing fee must accompany your renewal application. if you are reapplying for employment authorization under the (c)(8) category, and this is not your initial employment authorization, the appropriate filing fee must accompany your application. for general employment authorization requirements based on a pending asylum application, see the “permission to work in the united states” section on the asylum page. last reviewed/updated: 08/14/2026 was this page helpful? yes no this page was not helpful because the content: select a reason has too little information has too much information is confusing is out of date other how can the content be improved? 0 / 2000 to protect your privacy, please do not include any personal information in your feedback. review our privacy policy . return to top topics forms newsroom citizenship green card laws tools contact uscis agency description uscis.gov an official website of the u.s. department of homeland security important links about uscis accessibility budget and performance dhs components freedom of information act no fear act data privacy and legal disclaimers site map office of the inspector general the white house usa.gov looking for u.s. government information and services? visit usa.gov