how to change your legal name on file with va | veterans affairs skip to content an official website of the united states government here’s how you know the .gov means it’s official. federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. before sharing sensitive information, make sure you re on a federal government site. the site is secure. the https:// ensures that you re connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and sent securely. talk to the veterans crisis line now how to change your legal name on file with va if you’re a veteran, spouse, dependent, or caregiver and you get va healthcare or direct benefit payments, you’ll need to tell us if you have a legal name change so we can change your name on file with us. you must contact your va medical center, each va program office that you receive direct benefit payments from, and the defense enrollment eligibility reporting system (deers) support office. keep reading to find out how to change your name with each of these offices. you must also change your legal name in deers separately your information on file with va must match what’s in deers. when you change your name on file with va, it doesn’t automatically get updated in deers. so you’ll need to contact the defense manpower data center (dmdc) separately to change your name in deers. learn how to change your name in deers change your name for va healthcare documents you’ll need to send us if you receive va healthcare and want to request that we change your name, send us both of these documents: a letter asking us to update your va healthcare records with your new legal name, and a copy of your unexpired, government-issued photo id that shows your date of birth and your new legal name. we’ll accept a passport, driver’s license, or government id (federal, state, or local id). if you receive va healthcare and want to request that we completely remove any part of your name or change any full part of your name to an initial, send us all of these documents: a letter asking us to update your va healthcare records with your new legal name, and 1 form of unexpired primary identification, and 1 form of secondary identification that displays your requested name. all identity traits must match on the document provided. what we accept as primary identification a state-issued driver’s license with your new name, photo, and date of birth a passport with your new name, photo, and date of birth a federal, state, or local government-issued photo id with your new name and date of birth what we accept as secondary identification a social security card or a letter from the social security administration with your requested name a court order for a name change a certificate of naturalization that includes an official name change where to send your request send your letter and the required documents listed above to your va medical center. find contact information for your va medical center note: you can also call your va medical center to get help changing your name on file with va. ask for the eligibility department. change your name for va benefit payments documents you’ll need to send us if you receive direct benefit payments and want to request that we change your name, please send us both of these documents: a letter requesting that your va benefit records be updated with your new legal name, and a copy of your unexpired, government-issued photo id (like a passport or driver’s license) that shows your date of birth and your new or old legal name you’ll also need to send us 1 of these documents, depending on the reason for your name change. if your name change is because of marriage, divorce, or an annulment , send us 1 of these 2 documents along with your letter and photo id: a copy of your marriage certificate, or a copy of your divorce or annulment decree if your name change is for any other reason (not because of marriage, divorce, or an annulment) , send us 1 of these 2 documents along with your letter and photo id: a copy of your social security card with your new legal name, or a copy of a court order showing your name change where to send your request send your letter and the required documents to each program office that you get payments from. find the instructions for each benefit program here. note: you can also call your regional office to get help changing your name on file with us. find your regional office benefit programs disability send your letter and required documents to this address: department of veterans affairs claims intake center po box 5235 janesville, wi 53547-5235 education and training send your letter and required documents using quicksubmit. upload your letter and documents using quicksubmit you can also send us your letter and required documents through ask va. upload your letter and documents using ask va note: you’ll need to contact your school or training institution separately. home loans or housing assistance send your letter and required documents to your regional loan center. find your regional loan center life insurance send your letter and required documents to your va life insurance office. find your va life insurance office pension send your letter and required documents to this address: department of veterans affairs pension intake center po box 5365 janesville, wi 53547-5365 veteran readiness and employment (chapter 31) send your letter and required documents to this address: vr e intake center po box 5210 janesville, wi 53547-5210 want to share more feedback? we ll use it to keep improving va.gov for all veterans and their families. complete our 3-question survey. related information va benefits apply for a printed veteran id card, get your va benefit letters and medical records, and learn how to apply for a discharge upgrade. browse by topic call the myva411 main information line: at ( ). last updated: august 7, 2026