application to waive filing fees and service costs | vermont judiciary icon-exit-link icon-facebook search icon skip to main content vermont judiciary to launch new online payment system for judicial bureau fines. read more beware of scams: fraudulent messages targeting vermont drivers. read more the orleans county courthouse at 247 main street in newport is temporarily closed to the public. court assistance and forms are available at the orleans criminal courthouse located next door at 217 main street. all hearings will be held in person at 217 main street unless you are notified otherwise. menu home log in search content looking for court hearings? search here. search (mobile) log in about the vermont judiciary attorneys jurors law enforcement media self-help for the public court calendars court divisions court forms e-filing find a court pay a fine find information involving protection from abuse adoption adult minor guardianships boards and committees court fees court programs services debt and small claims divorce parentage estates, wills, and trusts eviction and foreclosure finding legal help judicial commission on family treatment dockets judicial nominating board language access public portal traffic violations transcripts other topics court divisions civil division criminal division environmental division family division judicial bureau probate division supreme court vt court records court records data and information requests memos to the vermont bar news and announcements opinions and decisions proposed and promulgated rules standing orders vt court resources access and resource center glossary of legal terms going to court vermont judiciary public portal breadcrumb home self-help for the public application to waive filing fees and service costs application to waive filing fees and service costs there may be several fees in a court case, including filing fees and service fees. a filing fee is the cost to start a case. sometimes there is also a fee to file something in a case that has been already started. see the fees web page for a list of filing fees in the different court divisions. a service fee is the fee to have papers served on the other party. when you file a court case, you must either pay the filing fee or ask to have the fee waived. to ask to waive the fees, fill out and file the application to waive filing fees and service costs form at the bottom of this page. the form is also sometimes called application to proceed in forma pauperis or ifp . in forma pauperis is a latin phrase meaning "in the manner of a pauper." pauper is an old-fashioned word for someone who is poor. be sure to fill out the form completely. if you don't, the form may be returned to you. if you answer "yes" to the question about public assistance, provide information about the type of assistance you receive and the amount, and then skip to the signature section. asking to waive filing fees service costs completely fill out all sections of the application to waive filing fees and service costs form . you must provide information about your income, expenses, and assets, such as houses, cars, cash, and bank accounts. when you sign the form, you are saying everything you wrote is true and accurate. you face punishment for perjury if you do not tell the truth. you can file the application at the same time as the other forms you are filing. the court clerk will review your application and will let you know whether your request is granted. qualifying for a waiver the court can waive your filing fee and service costs if: you receive any kind of public assistance, or your gross income is at or below 150% of the federal poverty guidelines , or the court finds you can't pay the fee without expending resources needed to support you and your dependents. if you become able to pay your waived fees or costs of service while your case is pending, the court may require you to pay the waived costs. if you win your case, the court can order the other party to pay to the court the fees or costs you had waived. if your request is denied the clerk will notify you if your application is denied. you must pay the filing fee and any service fees within 30 days, or your case may be dismissed. you have the right to appeal the denial of your application to the presiding judge. you must file a written appeal within 7 days of the date of the order. if your appeal is denied, you must pay your filing fee and any service fees. asking to reduce the cost of the cope class parents of minor children who are involved one of these kinds of court matters must take the four-hour coping with separation and divorce (cope) class: divorce civil union dissolution parentage separation case changing parental rights and responsibilities the class costs $79. if you can't afford the fee, you can ask to have the cost reduced. if approved, the fee could be reduced to $30 or $15. fill out and file with the court the helping children cope with divorce program – application for reduced fee form . forms application to waive filing fees and service costs (600-00228) you also have the option of filling out the application to waive filing fees and service costs on your phone or computer using the vtcourtforms guided interview . this tool helps you complete and download the form in 3 steps: step 1: answer questions that will fill in the form for you. step 2: preview the completed form and edit answers, if needed. step 3: download, save, print or email the final form. helping children cope with separation and divorce (cope class) helping children cope with divorce program – application for reduced fee (cope) (400-00228c) mission statement the mission of the vermont judiciary is to provide equal access to justice, protect individual rights, resolve legal disputes fairly and timely, and provide everyone the opportunity to have their day in court. our vision the people of vermont will have trust and confidence in the vermont state courts because the courts are fair, impartial, accessible, responsive, consistent, free of discrimination, independent, and well-managed. ada information employment opportunities filing a complaint get adobe reader help using this website outlook web access request an interpreter terms of use vermont statutes, court rules and administrative code (lexisnexis) vermont superior trial court email policy website accessibility statement website feedback © 2026 vermont judiciary. all rights reserved. facebook twitter