ncdhhs: dph: nc vital records: change a record your browser is extremely outdated and cannot properly display our website. update your browser! skip to main content search search scope explanation search scope search returns public content ; it does not return vital records or existing order status. vital records are not free public records . to place a new order: for regular certificates with no amendments, see the order a certificate page. for special registrations, such as amendments or corrections, see the change a record page. close nc dhhs nc.gov agencies jobs services toggle navigation vr home about certificates purchase a certificate adoptions birth death fetal death marriage divorce amend or correct a certificate process an adoption marriage certificates statement of no marriage divorce certificates paternity establishment - affidavit of parentage (aop), court orders, disestablishment process a delayed registration of birth processing times faqs fees forms faqs forms research birth records outside nc finding old records genealogical research medical research vital statistics rules for our partners ncdave e b rs resources birthing centers training faqs hospitals training faqs local health departments training faqs medical certifiers training faqs registers of deeds training faqs ncdave e d rs resources funeral directors training faqs user guides local health departments training faqs user guides medical certifiers training faqs user guides medical examiners training faqs user guides registers of deeds training faqs user guides registers of deeds (forms, etc.) contact county offices that have vital records dhhs dph schs nc vital records change a record nc vital records: change a record in order to make full use of this site you should be viewing it in a browser that has javascript enabled. processing times birth and death amendments birth and death amendment requests submitted to nc vital records or a register of deeds office are to be processed within 30 calendar days after the office receives the completed application with notarization, the appropriate evidence as listed on the application, and payment of any applicable fees for the amendment . the 30-day window does not begin until the completed application and required evidence are received by nc vital records or the register of deeds office and payment has been verified (i.e., fees transaction processed). adoptions, paternity, and other amendments we process these requests as quickly as possible, in the order received. please see the web page referenced below and/or the number listed with the change type for assistance . certificate change types and processes + expand all | - collapse all adoptions see the adoptions page for processes and forms. changes to birth certificates (amendments, court orders, legitimations) after acceptance for registration by the state registrar, no birth certificate can be altered or changed except by a request to the state office. the state registrar adopts rules governing the form of these requests and the type and amount of proof required. availability requests for modification of a birth certificate by amendment, correction, court order, or legitimation may be submitted at the following locations. ncovr portal: birth amendments customers may initiate electronic amendment requests for birth certificates, court orders, and legitimations through our self-service portal, in order to expedite processing for those amendment types. important : if you have a court order or legitimation , please see 3. n.c. vital records by mail (below) as we will need to inspect the certified documents. all required documentation submissions and transactions can be handled online via the ncovr portal. access the portal for birth amendments ncovr portal: birth amendments click the ncovr portal... button above. on the portal, click the birth certificate modification application link. under the customers and new users panel, click the customer login button. you will be prompted to login or sign up for an account. as a first-time user you will need to create an account . portal access is secure, requiring user authentication. for help / assistance with account registration or access issues, please call 919-733-3000 or send us an email . the county register of deeds where the birth occurred some county registers of deeds will provide this service for out-of-county vital events, so please check with your county register of deeds for the services they provide. nc vital records by mail court order : for certificate modifications that are requested pursuant to a court-ordered name change : mail us the completed birth certificate modification application form in order to provide information necessary to locate the original birth certificate. be sure to write in the reason for the modification under part ii. you must include a certified copy of the name change court order along with your request. there is a nonrefundable fee of $39 to perform the record search and process the application to modify the birth certificate . this fee includes a copy of the amended certificate if the application is approved. please complete the application, have your signature notarized and supply all required identity documents and evidence prior to submission of the application. search and processing fees are nonrefundable . after the modified birth certificate containing the name change has been processed , you may order additional copies of the certificate. information for how to order may be found on the order a certificate page. note that we cannot modify a field on a birth certificate if that field has been previously modified without a court order. if you are unsure whether the field you are requesting to modify has been previously modified, you may first submit a "request to amend a record" form to our office. however, we encourage you to thoughtfully consider whether submission of this form could be required for your birth certificate, as additional processing time will apply. if you determine that a request to amend inquiry is necessary, mail us the completed request to amend a record form with a $24 search fee (nonrefundable) . note : this form is used only to make a request and does not authorize any changes to the record. additional processing times will apply. after we receive your form with the requested change and the fee, we will evaluate your request and respond in writing with further instructions. legitimation : for certificate modifications that are requested pursuant to a legitimation : a legitimation is a legal process for biological fathers to acknowledge their children when they marry the mother after the birth of the child. a new birth certificate may be issued reflecting the father's name, and the child's name can be changed to the father's last name if the parents agree and request the change. in some cases, a court order may be required. request a legitimation affidavit for new birth certificate at the county register of deeds where the birth occurred or by sending us an email . mail us the completed birth certificate modification application form , including the completed legitimation affidavit and required identity documents indicated on pages 2-3 of the application. be sure to write in the reason for the modification under part ii. there is a nonrefundable fee of $39 to perform the record search and process the application to modify the birth certificate . this fee includes a copy of the amended certificate if the application is approved. after the modified birth certificate containing the name change has been processed , you may order additional copies of the certificate. information for how to order additional copies may be found on the order a certificate page. note that we cannot modify a field on a birth certificate if that field has been previously modified without a court order. if you are unsure whether the field you are requesting to modify has been previously modified, you may first submit a request to amend a record form to our office. however, we encourage you to thoughtfully consider whether submission of this form could be required for your birth certificate, as additional processing time will apply. mail us the completed request to amend a record form with a $24 search fee (nonrefundable) . note : this form is used only to make a request and does not authorize any changes to the record. additional processing times will apply. after we receive your form with the requested change and the fee, we will evaluate your request and respond in writing with further instructions. see below for details for certificate modifications that are requested pursuant to a paternity acknowledgment or paternity judgment . phone 984-236-7203 please note that we are experiencing higher than normal call volumes. you may experience longer than normal wait times or be given a callback option. alternatively, you may contact us at nc vital records inquiry . please allow 3-5 business day response time. changes to birth certificates due to paternity change this content is available on the paternity establishment page, which includes affidavits of parentage (aops), court orders for paternity, and disestablishment of paternity. changes to death certificates after acceptance for registration by the state registrar, no death certificate can be altered or changed except by a request. the state registrar adopts rules governing the form of these requests and the type and amount of proof required. processing locations in nc this service is available at the following locations. the county register of deeds where the death occurred. nc vital records by mail. request process and fees through nc vital records if you want to request a change to a death certificate through our office: mail us the completed death certificate amendment application with a $24 search fee ( nonrefundable ) + $15 amendments processing fee = total $39. please refer to identity verification, entitlement, and required amendment proof to comply with id requirements, ensure legal entitlement to modify, and to amend each field on the death certificate. be sure to note on the form what type of change is needed. after we receive your form with the requested change and the fee, we will evaluate your request and respond in writing with further instructions. phone 984-236-7203 please note that we are experiencing higher than normal call volumes. you may experience longer than normal wait times or be given a callback option. alternatively, you may contact us at nc vital records inquiry . please allow 3-5 business day response time. changes to divorce certificates our office does not handle changes to divorce certificates . for divorce certificate changes, contact the county clerk of court where the divorce was filed. changes to fetal death reports after acceptance for registration by the state registrar, no fetal death report can be altered or changed except by a request. the state registrar adopts rules governing the form of these requests and the type and amount of proof required. availability this service is available through nc vital records by mail. how to request a change to a fetal death report if you want to request a change to a death certificate through our office: mail us the completed request to amend a record form with a $24 search fee ( nonrefundable ). this form is used only to make a request and does not authorize any changes to the record. be sure to note on the form what type of change is needed. after we receive your form with the requested change and the fee, we will evaluate your request and respond in writing with further instructions. phone 984-236-7203 please note that we are experiencing higher than normal call volumes. you may experience longer than normal wait times or be given a callback option. alternatively, you may contact us at nc vital records inquiry . please allow 3-5 business day response time. changes to marriage certificates our office does not handle changes to marriage certificates . for marriage certificate changes, contact the county register of deeds where the marriage license was issued. other amendments or changes if you need to make a change to a birth or death certificate not listed above, please contact us at 984-236-7203 or mail in a completed birth certificate modification application form . please note that we are experiencing higher than normal call volumes. you may experience longer than normal wait times or be given a callback option. alternatively, you may contact us at nc vital records inquiry . please allow 3-5 business day response time. certificate modifications frequently asked questions (faqs) 1. i have petitioned the court to legally change my name and i was born in north carolina. what should i do next? if you have received notice of final order from the court , you are required to complete our birth certificate modification application form and pay the associated fee of $39. these steps are required before the birth certificate can be amended. if you have not received notice of final order from the court , please follow-up with the court for status of the order. 2. i have petitioned the court to legally change my name, but i was not born in north carolina. what should i do next? please contact the vital records office in the jurisdiction where you were born . the north carolina office of vital records does not administer your birth record. 3. i have initiated an adoption proceeding for an adoptee who was not born in north carolina, but was born in another united states vital records jurisdiction. what should i do next? please contact the vital records office in the jurisdiction where the child was born . the north carolina office of vital records does not administer the birth record. 4. i completed an affidavit of parentage for child born out of wedlock at the medical facility where my child was born, at a local health department, or at the state or local vital records office. what happens next? if you have verified that the medical facility, local vital records office or health department have submitted the affidavit to us, you are now required to complete our birth certificate modification application form and pay the associated fee of $39. these steps are required before the birth certificate can be amended. if you have not verified, please follow-up with the facility or health department for status. 5. i completed an affidavit of parentage for child born out of wedlock with the biological father of my child born in nc. why is the father’s name not shown on my child’s birth certificate? a possible reason for this omission is that when a mother is legally married at the time of either conception or birth, nc law requires a court order to add the biological father’s name on the child’s birth record. the order must also find that husband is not the father of the child. other reasons could include that there was a father on the record prior to submission of the affidavit of parentage. 6. how do i remove a parent listed on a birth certificate? nc law requires a court order to remove a parent from a birth certificate. a dna parentage test report is not sufficient documentation to provide to this office to remove a parent from a child’s certificate of birth. 7. i completed a legitimation affidavit for new birth certificate. what should i do next? if you have completed a legitimation affidavit, you are now required to complete our birth certificate modification application form and pay the associated fee of $39. these steps are required before the birth certificate can be amended. if you have not completed the affidavit, please complete it prior to submitting an application to amend. if you need an affidavit, request one at the county register of deeds where the birth occurred or by emailing us at [email protected] . note : a legitimation is a legal process for biological fathers to acknowledge their children when they marry the mother after the birth of the child. a new birth certificate may be issued reflecting the father's name, and the child's name can be changed to the father's last name if the parents agree and request the change. in some cases, a court order may be required. 8. i applied to amend a north carolina birth certificate . what happens next? birth and death amendment requests submitted to nc vital records or a register of deeds office are to be processed within 30 calendar days after the office receives the completed application with notarization, the appropriate evidence as listed on the application, and payment of any applicable fees for the amendment . the 30-day window does not begin until the completed application and required evidence are received by nc vital records or the register of deeds office and payment has been verified (i.e., fees transaction processed). 9. i applied to amend a north carolina death certificate . what happens next? birth and death amendment requests submitted to nc vital records or a register of deeds office are to be processed within 30 calendar days after the office receives the completed application with notarization, the appropriate evidence as listed on the application, and payment of any applicable fees for the amendment . the 30-day window does not begin until the completed application and required evidence are received by nc vital records or the register of deeds office and payment has been verified (i.e., fees transaction processed). 10. i submitted a request to amend form but have not yet submitted an application to amend a birth certificate. what happens next? after we receive your form with the requested change and the fee, we will evaluate your request and respond in writing with further instructions. what we can change n.c. vital records can assist with changes to a birth or death certificate. our office does not handle changes to marriage or divorce certificates. for marriage certificate changes or replacements , contact the county register of deeds where the marriage license was issued. for divorce certificate changes , contact the county clerk of court where the divorce was filed. last modified: july 13, 2026 contact information for the nc vital records hours, phone, mailing address, and physical address, see the vital records contact us page. follow us employee directory nc.gov accessibility disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy open budget