amend a vital record | vital records | utah department of health and human services amend a vital record many vital records may be amended. all amendments require an affidavit or a court order. once an amendment is made the record status changes from "registered" to "amended" and an amendment history becomes part of the record as a second page. court ordered amendments must have a certified copy of the order submitted with the request. amendment processing takes approximately 6-12 weeks depending on volume of amendment requests, complexity of amendment, and completeness of documents provided. birth record amendments any change that will be using an affidavit must be signed by the certificate holder and an immediate family member. if the certificate holder is under 18 the listed parents must sign, if only one parent is listed the 2nd witness can be an immediate family member of the parent. if a child dies before a name has been entered on their birth certificate it may be added within the first year of the birth through the affidavit process. any other posthumous amendments require a court order. amendments to a delayed birth certificate require a court order. changes are categorized into scrivener’s errors (errors made by an entity entering the information (not parent), omissions, and changes requested by the parent. some changes require an amendment and some changes do not. here is a guide that provides most, but not all, of the types of changes and how to proceed. correct parent information or add a parent to correct parent information or add a parent to correct a parent’s name on a birth certificate the correction of data entry errors may be made at a vital records office using a non-amendment correction form if done in the first year after the birth of the child or through the affidavit process if done after the first year. submit either a non-amendment correction form or an affidavit to amend a vital record with a birth certificate application , documentation that supports that there is an error in the record, a copy of the requester’s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. parent’s name change due to court order provide a certified copy of the court order and a certified copy of the parent’s corrected birth certificate. submit these documents with a completed court order, an amendment form, a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester’s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. parent’s name change due to naturalization provide a certified copy of the court order and the original naturalization certificate. submit these documents with a completed court order amendment form, a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester’s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. to add a parent: add a parent when parents were married if the parents were married prior to the child’s birth, they may use an affidavit to add the 2nd parent. provide a certified copy of the marriage certificate as documentary evidence. submit this document with an affidavit to amend a vital record, a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester’s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. add biological father when parents were not married a biological father can be added by a voluntary declaration of paternity if all parties are willing. the mother must start the request. to begin the process submit a completed father’s worksheet, a birth certificate application completed by the mother, a copy of the mother’s id, and the correct fees. court order to add a parent to add a parent with a court order you will need to submit the certified copy of the court order with a birth certificate application for adoption/court order paternity, the requester’s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees (certified court order will be retained by our office). the court order must contain the following information: the child’s full name as it is currently listed on the birth record. if the order lists the child’s initials only, a certified copy of the non-public minor information worksheet is required. the child’s date of birth. the full name of the parent(s) as it is currently listed on the certificate. the full name of the parent being added or removed. an order for the office of vital records to add or remove the parent from the birth record/certificate of the child. the child’s full new name, if applicable. parent change due to adoption please see our adoption page for instructions. change or add a child's name to process an affidavit, submit an affidavit to amend a vital record, a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester’s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. affidavits may be used with the following guidelines, any other changes will require a court order. age at birth to 1: any part of the name can be added or changed without documentation using the affidavit process. age over 1: adding a child's name (if left blank) after the first birthday but before the 7th birthday can be done through the affidavit process. changing a child's name after the first birthday requires a court order. gender change an amendment of a birth certificate of an intersex individual may be made by affidavit, submitting a genetic test that confirms that the individual is intersex, and an affidavit from a health care professional, health care facility, or laboratory testing facility attesting to the accuracy of the result. an individual may obtain a court order to change the sex designation on a birth certificate if the individual meets the requirements of law, which include that the child is at least 15 years and 6 months old unless the child is emancipated. the court order for a change in sex designation must state the individual's full name, the gender that is currently on the birth record and the gender that will be corrected on the birth record. submit the certified court order with a court order amendment form, a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester's id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. change other birth information child s birth date if the child is under 21 years of age a birth date entered incorrectly can be corrected by the hospital. the state vital records office can help contact the hospital. if the hospital verifies the current information on the birth certificate as accurate, then a court order is required to make the change. if the child is over 21 years of age the date of birth may be corrected by up to 5 days with an affidavit without additional documentation. if the change is more than 5 days one form of documentary evidence is required. the date of birth cannot be amended if it conflicts with the registration date. submit an affidavit to amend a vital record, a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. medical information (gender, birth place, birth weight, birth time, and attending physician) for medical information of the child that was incorrectly recorded at the time of birth. if the medical information is available the information must be corrected by the hospital. the state vital records office can help contact the hospital. if the hospital verifies the information on the birth certificate as accurate, then a court order is required to make the change. if the hospital records are no longer available an affidavit and two forms of documentary evidence are required to make corrections to the birth place, birth weight, birth time, and attending physician. submit the acceptable documentary evidence with an affidavit to amend a vital record, a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. a medical affidavit declaring the correct gender of the child will be required to correct the gender. submit the medical affidavit with a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. death record amendments a completed affidavit to amend a vital record must be submitted to the state or local vital records office along with the required fees for registration. two people (witnesses) having knowledge of the facts must complete and sign the affidavit. signatures of both witnesses must be notarized. it is ideal if one of the witnesses on the affidavit is the informant. if the informant is not supporting the change you will need to contact the state office of vital records. amendments to the medical items on the death record must be completed by the physician that certified the cause of death. documentary evidence may be required at any time at the discretion of the office of vital records and statistics. if required documentation is unavailable or unacceptable, a court order may be required to make requested changes. birth resulting in a stillbirth amendments stillbirth records can be amended up to one year after the date of delivery, any other changes require a court order. submit an affidavit to amend a vital record, a birth certificate application, a copy of the requester’s id, and a check or money order for the correct fees. affidavits must be signed by the listed parents. if only one parent is listed the second witness needs to be an immediate family member of a parent. marriage and divorce amendments any changes to a marriage record must be filed with the county clerk where the license was issued. any amendments to a divorce record must be filed with the district court where the decree was filed. forms and links view all forms follow us online office of vital records and statistics department of health and human services martha hughes cannon building 288 north 1460 west salt lake city, utah 84116 phone: (801) 538-6105 navigation menu certificates order a vital record certificate amend a vital record birth adoption putative father information death faq contact resources 211utah - united way safe ut utah domestic violence coalition 988 suicide and crisis lifeline hotlines abuse/neglect of seniors and adults with disabilities 1-800-371-7897 child abuse/neglect 1-855-323-dcfs(3237) crisis line mobile outreach team 1-801-587-3000 national suicide prevention lifeline 1-800-273-talk(8255) sexual violence crisis line 1-888-421-1100 utah domestic violence 1-800-897-link(5465) translate ❯