wisconsin court system - court services - for the public - self-help law center skip to content log in appellate court efiling circuit court efiling admissions cle reporting how do i... livestream court hearings? pay a fine/fee? locate court staff? find employment opportunities? change my name? file a grievance against an attorney? court closures home about court system overview supreme court function justices ziegler bradley roggensack r. bradley dallet hagedorn karofsky former justices calendar livestream courts famous cases visiting court of appeals function fees & filing judges neubauer reilly blanchard gundrum kloppenburg stark hruz brash, iii dugan fitzpatrick graham nashold donald white gill grogan judicial exchange program livestream courts circuit courts fees & filing judges & court websites clerks of court livestream courts municipal courts court website newsletters administrative offices director of state courts ccap medical mediation panels court operations judicial education management services ccip supreme court offices board of bar examiners lawyer regulation state law library clerk of the supreme court & court of appeals committees & boards attorney processes & conduct office of lawyer regulation board of administrative oversight office of lawyer regulation district committees office of lawyer regulation procedure review committee preliminary review committee attorney education & resources board of bar examiners state bar board of governors judicial processes & conduct committee of chief judges judicial commission members wisconsin constitution published cases scr chapter 60 statutes administrative code faqs complaint form judicial conduct advisory committee state-tribal justice forum judicial education & resources benchbook committees judicial college planning committee judicial conference judicial conference planning committee judicial education committee records & technology consolidated court automation programs steering committee wisconsin circuit court access (wcca) oversight committee wisconsin court records management committee public access to justice access to justice commission wisconsin commission on children, families and the courts wisconsin judicial committee on child welfare other chief justice's covid-19 task force the committee to improve interpreting and translation in the wisconsin courts planning and policy advisory committee supreme court appointment selection committee participation court programs problem-solving courts training & resources hub training & events calendar funding opportunities request training pretrial program commercial docket pilot project interpreter program trust account overdraft program outreach & educational resources resources for kids resources for teachers informational handouts blue book explores the court system justice on wheels additional resources history articles on legal history employment current openings court reporter information law clerk information benefits case search circuit court pending supreme court supreme court & court of appeals opinions supreme court search for opinions & dispositional orders opinions scheduled for release dispositional tables oral argument schedule watch/listen to oral arguments court of appeals search for opinions opinions scheduled for release orders of published opinions orders of unpublished opinions search for certifications listen to oral arguments search summary dispositions rules current rules processes pending rules notices orders petition archive forms circuit court search general civil criminal conservatorship family guardianship juvenile mental commitments self representation probate small claims other languages court of appeals office of lawyer regulation services for the public pay fees & fines self-help divorce & family law small claims name change juvenile probate restraining orders how the courts work representing yourself appeals lawyer regulation process system filing a grievance lawyer status & history public disciplinary matters pending disciplinary complaints petitions for license reinstatement protection of information guidelines confidential records faqs forms filing a complaint or grievance wisconsin state law library ada policies & procedures language access plan for jurors general information online services qualification questionnaire juror status postponement requests circuit court contacts information for employers glossary of terms juror appreciation for attorneys admission to the practice of law certificates & letters commercial docket pilot project continuing legal education ecourts epayment in-house counsel law license reinstatement name change pro hac vice protection of information guidelines confidential records faqs forms trust account program for judges continuing education conduct & ethics interpreters judicial family institute for commissioners for referees for interpreters certification two-day orientation written examination oral examination other requirements pay workshops & exam fees search code of ethics continuing education forms clac resources legal glossaries related links statutes, rules, & case law conferences training resources news for the media headlines the third branch media coordinators media resources for volunteers for veterans efiling circuit court efiling log in to efile registration timeline rules & requirements efile updates user guides & training faqs contact support appellate court efiling log in to efile overview registration timeline rules & requirements efile updates user guides & training faqs contact support pay court fees & fines forms assistant juror services continuing legal education reporting publications guides committee & official reports fees & forfeitures newsletters speeches statistics supreme court court of appeals circuit court municipal court search wicourts.gov services for the public resources tailored for you home services public self-help name change navigate this section self-help law center divorce & family law small claims name change juvenile probate restraining orders how the courts work representing yourself appeals self-help law center name change name change procedure is governed by wisconsin statutes 786.36-.37 (external link) . this page describes the general court procedure for name changes across the state. for specific county procedures, contact your clerk of circuit court or check the county circuit court site . wisconsin also recognizes the common law right to change your name through consistent and continuous use as long as the change is not done for a fraudulent purpose. this common law right also applies to name change upon marriage. procedures and information basic steps to handling a name change : step-by-step guide with a checklist and references to necessary forms. name change comparison chart : information on name changes and confidential name changes. forms petition for change of name (adult or minor 14 or older) petition for change of name - minor child under 14 petition for confidential name change view all name change forms file all forms (including both copies of the petition) with the clerk of circuit court office in your county. a filing fee is required. eligibility you must be a resident of wisconsin. the petition must be filed in the county of your residence. the court may grant the petition "if no sufficient cause is shown to the contrary." for a person under 14 years of age, the petition may be submitted by: both parents, if both are living, or the surviving parent. the guardian or person who has legal custody of the minor if both parents are dead or if parental rights have been terminated by judicial proceedings. the minor's mother, if the parents have not married, if the child is not adopted, and if paternity of the minor has not been established. one parent, if that parent has been unable to locate or serve the other parent with the petition. if the other parent is notified and objects, and has not abandoned the child, the court will require consent of the non petitioning parent. there are some restrictions for people engaged in professions for which the state of wisconsin requires a license. see wisconsin statute 786.36(3) (external link) . people required to register as sex offenders are prohibited from changing their names. see wisconsin statute 301.47(2) . (external links) publication wisconsin statute 786.37 (external link) requires publication of the notice of hearing and order for hearing in a newspaper authorized to carry legal notices for your community. you must contact the newspaper directly to publish a third class notice (i.e., printed once a week for three weeks) prior to the hearing date. the newspaper will charge a fee for this service. after publication is completed and paid for, the newspaper will mail a proof of publication affidavit to you. under wisconsin statute 786.37(4) a judge may waive the publication requirement if a petition for confidential name change is filed and the judge determines that publication of the name change request could endanger the petitioner. hearing filing the order arrive on time for your hearing at the assigned courtroom and inform the deputy clerk of your presence. come forward when your case is called and give the proof of publication affidavit to the clerk. if you are requesting a confidential name change, you do not have to provide the proof of publication affidavit to the clerk. you will be placed under oath and asked for the information on the petition (name, desired name, etc.). if your petition is granted, the judge will sign the order for name change. the deputy clerk will then give the case file back to you with directions. take the case file back to the clerk of circuit court office and purchase at least two certified copies of the order for name change. a fee will be charged for certified copies. if the person whose name is changed or established was born or married in this state, the clerk of the court shall send to the state registrar of vital statistics, on a form designed by the state registrar of vital statistics, an abstract of the record, duly certified, accompanied by the fee prescribed in §69.22, which fee the clerk of court shall charge to and collect from the petitioner. if you were born or married outside of wisconsin, you will need to write to that state's vital records office (external link) and ask what is required to change a birth or marriage certificate. another certified copy of the order should be taken to the register of deeds office for filing. there will be a filing fee. you may wish to buy an additional certified copy of the order for your records. name change for newborns wisconsin statutes 69.11(3)(b) (external link) allows you to change your child's name without a court order, for up to 365 days after his/her birth. to do this, contact the wisconsin office of vital records at the address above. name change due to marriage if you would like to change your name due to marriage, a court order is typically not required. to change your name due to marriage, consider taking the following steps: obtain a copy of your certified marriage certificate from any register of deeds office in wisconsin take your marriage certificate to the social security office and update your social security card - for additional information on updating your name with the social security office, visit: https://www.ssa.gov/personal-record/change-name take your marriage certificate to the dmv and update your driver’s license - it is recommended that you wait at least 48 hours after visiting the social security office before visiting the dmv. for additional information on updating your name with the dmv, visit: https://wisconsindot.gov/pages/dmv/license-drvs/rnew-and-chge/name-change.aspx update other accounts (i.e., banks, employers, credit cards, insurance, voter registration) as needed name change due to divorce if you would like to change your name after you obtain a divorce, a court order is typically not required if the divorce judgment provides that you can resume the use of your former last name (surname). to change your name after obtaining a divorce, consider taking the following steps: obtain a certified copy of the findings of fact conclusion of law and judgment from the clerk of court in the county where the divorce was granted take your certified copy of the divorce judgment to the social security office and update your social security card - for additional information on updating your name with the social security office, visit: https://www.ssa.gov/personal-record/change-name take your certified copy of the divorce judgment to the dmv and update your driver’s license - it is recommended that you wait at least 48 hours after visiting the social security office before visiting the dmv. for additional information on updating your name with the dmv, visit: https://wisconsindot.gov/pages/dmv/license-drvs/rnew-and-chge/name-change.aspx update other accounts (i.e., banks, employers, credit cards, insurance, voter registration) as needed correcting or amending a birth certificate wisconsin statutes 69.11 and 69.12 (external link) set out the procedure for correcting a birth certificate. this process is used when an item is incorrect or omitted on a birth certificate. the state registrar of vital statistics may make certain changes without a court order. the state registrar may amend the name, sex, date of birth, place of birth, parents' surnames and marital status of parents. for correction of a birth certificate within one year of the child's birth, contact: wisconsin office of vital records (external link) , p.o. box 309, madison, wi 53701-0309, (608) 266-1373 after one year from the child's birth, a court order is required to change a birth certificate. to obtain a court order, the circuit court will require one or both of the following forms: (1) court order to amend a wisconsin birth certificate, which is available at the wisconsin vital records office, and (2) petition to correct vital record. contact the clerk of circuit court to find out whether both forms must be filed and whether the clerk has local form for a petition to correct. after you fill out the required forms, you should attach any necessary supporting documentation and file your forms with the clerk of court. if you are providing a certified copy of your birth certificate, the clerk of court will abstract the necessary information from the birth certificate for the court record and return the certified copy of the birth certificate to you. counties charge a filing fee to correct a birth certificate. if your request is approved, the judge will sign the order to amend a wisconsin birth certificate. the clerk will instruct you on how to file the order with the state registrar. the state registrar charges a filing fee. resources the wisconsin state law library website provides access to additional resources on name change (external link) . the wisconsin vital records office is responsible for filing, preserving, protecting, changing, and issuing copies of wisconsin vital records, including birth, death, marriage and divorce certificates. wisconsin vital records office (external link) p.o. box 309, madison, wi 53701-0309 (608) 266-1373 self-help law center divorce & family law small claims name change juvenile probate restraining orders how the courts work representing yourself appeals the wisconsin court system protects individuals' rights, privileges and liberties, maintains the rule of law, and provides a forum for the resolution of disputes that is fair, accessible, independent and effective. directories all directories supreme court/state administrative offices court of appeals circuit court administrative districts circuit courts alphabetical listing circuit court clerks key links administrative & interim orders closure information livestream courts news employment forms remote hearing resources wcca updated: january 12, 2026 a-z index / disclaimer / site help / rss / related sites / court system staff / contact