adult name change - wyoming judicial branch skip to content privacy page court closures - labor day courts statewide will be closed on monday, september 7, for the labor day holiday. find a court notice regarding west publishing corp. breach the wyoming judicial branch has been notified of a cybersecurity breach involving west publishing corporation and the court management systems in the supreme court and district courts. resources and frequently asked questions are available. learn more efiling payments email updates careers news wy judicial branch legal help family advocacy guide to legal help find a court efiling payments email updates careers news wy judicial branch legal help family advocacy search for: courts supreme court district courts chancery court circuit courts treatment and diversion courts find a court report judicial misconduct frequently asked questions rules & opinions court rules rule amendments general orders supreme court opinions chancery court orders and decisions forms & publications policies publications self-help forms court rules forms and documents judicial branch info about the courts administrative office calendar careers committees and boards contact court administration employee resources mission and strategic plan media center services ada services court navigator services volunteer as a court navigator court interpreter services data requests legal resources legal research and resources law library wyoming research and resources federal research and resources jury duty interactive learning guide to legal help find a court courts supreme court district courts chancery court circuit courts treatment and diversion courts find a court report judicial misconduct frequently asked questions rules opinions court rules rule amendments general orders supreme court opinions chancery court orders and decisions forms publications policies publications self-help forms court rules forms and documents judicial branch info about the courts administrative office calendar careers committees and boards contact court administration employee resources mission and strategic plan media center services ada services court navigator services volunteer as a court navigator court interpreter services data requests legal resources legal research and resources law library wyoming research and resources federal research and resources jury duty interactive learning efiling payments email updates careers news wy judicial branch legal help family advocacy search for: equal justice wyoming equal justice wyoming home about equal justice wyoming grant information americorps vista program vista alumni need legal help find legal services near you legal resources find a lawyer free legal events calendar legal help by topic attorney resources contact ejw attorney login guide to legal help find a court equal justice wyoming equal justice wyoming home about equal justice wyoming grant information americorps vista program vista alumni need legal help find legal services near you legal resources find a lawyer free legal events calendar legal help by topic attorney resources contact ejw attorney login efiling payments email updates careers news wy judicial branch legal help family advocacy search for: children’s justice project about data resources judges and lawyers parents guide to legal help find a court children’s justice project about data resources judges and lawyers parents search search for: popular searches find a court near you find legal services nearby supreme court court rules supreme court opinions general orders home legal help topics adult name change adult name change adult name change information common questions forms resources common questions about adult name change print all faqs do i need a court order for a name change? a court order is now often required by many institutions to officially accept a name change, even if you have been using another name for a long time. this is because government regulations, created to protect against fraud such as identity theft, often require official documentation for a name change. therefore, you may need to ask the court to grant an official change of name. the information below explains more about that process. if you recently got married and want to change your last name to your spouse s last name, you may not have to go to court. you can usually change the name on your driver s license and social security card to your spouse s last name with just your marriage license or certificate. contact wydot and your local social security office for more information. if you are getting divorced and want to change your name to your maiden or previous name, you can usually do that during your divorce case. click here for more information about divorce. if you are becoming a u.s. citizen, you may able to change your name as part of the naturalization process. click here for more information about naturalization. how do i get a court order for a name change? you will need to file all the necessary forms with the district court in the county where you live; and follow all required court rules and procedures. click on the forms tab for adult name change forms and instructions. note: these are not official court forms. important! if you file a petition for a name change without a lawyer, you are still expected to complete all the court documents correctly, and to follow all court rules and procedures. the district court clerk’s office cannot assist you in preparing any legal documents or advise you about the law. if you do not think you can complete the process by yourself, you should consider talking to a lawyer. click here for help finding a lawyer. what are the requirements to get a name change in wyoming? you must have been an actual resident of wyoming for at least six (6) months before you can ask the court for a name change. you may change your first, middle and/or last names. you cannot change your name to avoid legal obligations, or to harm or defraud another person. is my name change private? most name change petitions can be viewed by anyone because they are public records, and generally, the law requires notice of a name change to be printed in a local newspaper. if you are a victim of domestic violence and your safety is in danger you can request to have your residence information in your name change file kept confidential and you will not have to publish a notice in a newspaper. to keep your information confidential, you will need to file a separate motion with your petition, and you may need to prove to the court that you are a victim of domestic violence and your safety is in danger. if you are applying for a name change because your safety is in danger, it is highly recommended that you talk to a lawyer or a domestic violence counselor. click here for more information about domestic violence. click here for help finding a lawyer. how much does it cost to file for a name change? filing fees depend on the county where you are filing. the district court clerk at your local courthouse can tell you what the fees are. click here to find a district court. in addition to the filing fees, you will need to pay for the cost of publishing notice of your name change in the local newspaper. this fee may be substantial (some papers charge several hundred dollars). you may want to call the newspaper first to make sure you can afford the publication fee. what happens if someone files an objection? in that case, you should seek the advice of a lawyer. if someone files an objection to your name change, you will need to schedule a hearing to prove that your name change is proper and not harmful to any other person. click here for help finding a lawyer. is there any reason why a person might not be allowed to change his or her name? yes. the court must find that the requested name change is proper and not harmful to the interests of any other person. a person is not allowed to change his or her name to avoid judgments or legal actions against him or her, or to avoid debts and obligations. a person cannot change their name to defraud or defame another person, or for any other illegal purpose. what do i do after i have the order for the name change? recommended steps: 1. get new identification cards. after you change your name, it is important that you get new identification documents and notify some agencies and organizations about your new name. each organization will have its own process for updating records. the first thing you may want to do is get a social security card and driver s license or i.d. with your new name so you can show them to the organizations along with the court order granting your name change. social security administration (changing a name) wyoming department of transportation (driver s license and i.d. card) wyoming secretary of state (voter registration) u.s. state department (passports) 2. notify agencies and organizations. employers schools insurance companies doctor, dentist, pharmacist banks and other financial institutions utility companies (telephone, cable, gas, electric, etc.) state and federal tax authorities social service or benefit programs 3. update important papers. you should also think about important papers that have your name on them, like titles to motor vehicles or real estate, a will, health care directive, power of attorney, etc. you may want to update those documents with your new name to avoid any confusion in the future. forms about adult name change forms by category name change name change forms please note: by law, the courts cannot provide legal advice. if you need additional assistance or forms that are not provided on this site, you may wish to consult an attorney or the equal justice wyoming website. your use of this website, and any forms you use from it, is at your own risk and without any warranties by the state of wyoming. filter: open accordion below to filter forms eligible for court navigator assistance all forms eligible for court navigator assistance (natrona and uinta counties) court navigators can assist with certain forms in natrona and uinta county circuit and district court. learn more about court navigators. adult name change self help forms name pdf word * full packet - adult name change download n/a nca 01 overview of the process for adult name change download download nca 02 instructions for petition and affidavit, adult download download nca 03 instructions for confidentiality forms, adult download download nca 04 instructions for notice to public, adult download download nca 05 instructions for final steps, adult download download nca 06 petition for name change, adult download download nca 07 motion for grant of confidentiality, adult download download nca 08 affidavit supporting motion for confidentiality, adult download download nca 09 order regarding confidentiality, adult download download nca 10 notice by publication, adult download download nca 11 request to set hearing, adult download download nca 12 notice of hearing, adult download download nca 13 order on name change, adult download download nca 14 certificate of service general, adult download download nca 15 vital statistics form download n/a resources about adult name change resources find a lawyer click the link above to learn more about finding a legal aid or private attorney. wyoming statutes and court rules title 1, chapter 25, change of name wyoming rules of civil procedure your local county library has print versions of wyoming statutes and rules. the print set includes references to additional relevant wyoming materials which you may find useful. common questions about adult name change do i need a court order for a name change? a court order is now often required by many institutions to officially accept a name change, even if you have been using another name for a long time. this is because government regulations, created to protect against fraud such as identity theft, often require official documentation for a name change. therefore, you may need to ask the court to grant an official change of name. the information below explains more about that process. if you recently got married and want to change your last name to your spouse s last name, you may not have to go to court. you can usually change the name on your driver s license and social security card to your spouse s last name with just your marriage license or certificate. contact wydot and your local social security office for more information. if you are getting divorced and want to change your name to your maiden or previous name, you can usually do that during your divorce case. click here for more information about divorce. if you are becoming a u.s. citizen, you may able to change your name as part of the naturalization process. click here for more information about naturalization. how do i get a court order for a name change? you will need to file all the necessary forms with the district court in the county where you live; and follow all required court rules and procedures. click on the forms tab for adult name change forms and instructions. note: these are not official court forms. important! if you file a petition for a name change without a lawyer, you are still expected to complete all the court documents correctly, and to follow all court rules and procedures. the district court clerk’s office cannot assist you in preparing any legal documents or advise you about the law. if you do not think you can complete the process by yourself, you should consider talking to a lawyer. click here for help finding a lawyer. what are the requirements to get a name change in wyoming? you must have been an actual resident of wyoming for at least six (6) months before you can ask the court for a name change. you may change your first, middle and/or last names. you cannot change your name to avoid legal obligations, or to harm or defraud another person. is my name change private? most name change petitions can be viewed by anyone because they are public records, and generally, the law requires notice of a name change to be printed in a local newspaper. if you are a victim of domestic violence and your safety is in danger you can request to have your residence information in your name change file kept confidential and you will not have to publish a notice in a newspaper. to keep your information confidential, you will need to file a separate motion with your petition, and you may need to prove to the court that you are a victim of domestic violence and your safety is in danger. if you are applying for a name change because your safety is in danger, it is highly recommended that you talk to a lawyer or a domestic violence counselor. click here for more information about domestic violence. click here for help finding a lawyer. how much does it cost to file for a name change? filing fees depend on the county where you are filing. the district court clerk at your local courthouse can tell you what the fees are. click here to find a district court. in addition to the filing fees, you will need to pay for the cost of publishing notice of your name change in the local newspaper. this fee may be substantial (some papers charge several hundred dollars). you may want to call the newspaper first to make sure you can afford the publication fee. what happens if someone files an objection? in that case, you should seek the advice of a lawyer. if someone files an objection to your name change, you will need to schedule a hearing to prove that your name change is proper and not harmful to any other person. click here for help finding a lawyer. is there any reason why a person might not be allowed to change his or her name? yes. the court must find that the requested name change is proper and not harmful to the interests of any other person. a person is not allowed to change his or her name to avoid judgments or legal actions against him or her, or to avoid debts and obligations. a person cannot change their name to defraud or defame another person, or for any other illegal purpose. what do i do after i have the order for the name change? recommended steps: 1. get new identification cards. after you change your name, it is important that you get new identification documents and notify some agencies and organizations about your new name. each organization will have its own process for updating records. the first thing you may want to do is get a social security card and driver s license or i.d. with your new name so you can show them to the organizations along with the court order granting your name change. social security administration (changing a name) wyoming department of transportation (driver s license and i.d. card) wyoming secretary of state (voter registration) u.s. state department (passports) 2. notify agencies and organizations. employers schools insurance companies doctor, dentist, pharmacist banks and other financial institutions utility companies (telephone, cable, gas, electric, etc.) state and federal tax authorities social service or benefit programs 3. update important papers. you should also think about important papers that have your name on them, like titles to motor vehicles or real estate, a will, health care directive, power of attorney, etc. you may want to update those documents with your new name to avoid any confusion in the future. contact information print this page contact information wyoming supreme court 2301 capitol avenue cheyenne, wy 82002 supreme court clerk voice: 307-777-7316 state law library voice: 307-777-7509 court administration voice: 307-777-7687 equal justice wyoming equal justice wyoming home about equal justice wyoming attorney resources contact ejw wyoming judicial branch courts supreme court district courts chancery court circuit courts treatment and diversion courts find a court report judicial misconduct frequently asked questions rules opinions court rules rule amendments general orders supreme court opinions chancery court orders and decisions forms publications policies publications self-help forms court rules forms and documents judicial branch info about the courts administrative office calendar careers committees and boards contact court administration employee resources mission and strategic plan media center services ada services court navigator services volunteer as a court navigator court interpreter services data requests legal resources legal research and resources law library wyoming research and resources federal research and resources jury duty interactive learning supreme court district courts chancery court circuit courts treatment and diversion courts © 2026 wyoming judicial branch o365 portal social media policy website accessibility statement contact information